REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
DISTRICT OF LOGAN LAKE
SUPPLY AND INSTALL CHAIN LINK FENCING AND GATES
AROUND JASPER RESERVOIR
CONTRACT No. RFP\-2024\-08
August 2024
Prepared by:
Mel Bohmer, Director of Public Works and Recreation
District of Logan Lake
Box 190, 1 Opal Drive
Logan Lake, BC V0K 1W0
RFP\-2024\-08 1

District of Logan Lake
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
SUPPLY PROJECT \# : RFP\-2024\-08, Supply and Install Chain Link Fencing and Gates
around Jasper Reservoir.
The District of Logan Lake is inviting Proposals for the supply and install of Chain Link Fencing and
Gates around its Jasper Reservoir. Further details on required specifications are provided in
Section C of this RFP document.
The Request for Proposal is posted and available for download on the BC Bid website
(www.bcbid.ca), and District website (www.loganlake.ca). Please note that it is the responsibility of
the proponent to occasionally check the website to ensure they receive all addendums that may be
posted there.
Proponents are requested to return One (1\) signed original and one (1\) copy of their Proposal, in
a sealed package clearly marked “RFP\-2024\-08 Supply and Install Chain Link Fencing and
Gates around Jasper Reservoir ” to the undersigned by the closing time of 2:00 P.M. Local
Time, Friday September 6, 2024\.
District of Logan Lake
Box 190, 1 Opal Drive
Logan Lake, BC V0K 1W0
Attn: Mel Bohmer, Director of Public Works and Recreation
Proposals may also be emailed to: mbohmer@loganlake.ca
Facsimile Proposals will not be considered. Proposals received after the closing date and time
may or may not be considered. The District of Logan Lake reserves the right to accept or reject
any or all proposals, or to accept the proposal which it deems most favorable in the interest of the
District. The lowest of any proposal will not necessarily be accepted.
Prices submitted shall include all freight, documentation fees, FOB District of Logan Lake, taxes
extra.
There will be no public opening for this Request for Proposal (RFP). No information will be
disclosed from the time of Bid opening to the time the contract is awarded. Once a contract has
been awarded the successful Proponents name will be available upon request. All Proposals
become the property of the District of Logan Lake and are subject to the Freedom of Information
and Privacy Legislation.
For all inquiries contact: Mel Bohmer – Buyer: mbohmer@loganlake.ca
RFP\-2024\-08 2

Section A: Instructions to Proponents
INSTRUCTIONS TO PROPONENTS
Definitions
The following words and terms, unless the context otherwise requires, will have the
meanings set out below:
“Closing Time” means the closing date, time and place as set out on the title page of this RFP.
“Contract” means the Agreement formed between the District of Logan Lake and the successful
Proponent by method of “Contract Award Letter”.
“District” means the Corporation of the District of Logan Lake.
“District’s Representative” will mean the employee of the District designated to administer work
under this contract.
“Proposal” means a proposal submitted in response to this RFP.
“Proponent” means a responder to this Request for Proposals.
“RFP” means this Request for Proposal document in its entirety, including any amendments,
and/or clarifications pertaining to this RFP that may be issued prior to the Closing Time.
“Requirements” means all of the specifications, and requirements set out in the RFP.
“Supplier” will mean the party awarded the contract by the District.
Alternatives
The Proponent’s basic Proposal shall conform strictly to the requirements of the Request for
Proposal documents and may also submit an alternative which is superior to or less costly than the
basic Proposal.
Terminology
Terminology such as, “must”, “shall”, “should”, or “may” identify the criticality of requirement. The
terms “must”, and “shall”, are mandatory terms. “Should” and “may” are preferred, but less
desirable and may affect the overall rating of the Proposal.
RFP\-2024\-08 3

Section A: Instructions to Proponents
Proposal Form and Content
Proposals should be submitted only on Appendix II Form of Proposal and Part C Specifications
provided. Unless specifically requested, the inclusion of corporate brochures and narratives are
discouraged.
The legal name and address of the Proponent is to be used when signing the Proposal documents.
All costs incurred by Proponents in the preparation and presentation of their Proposal will be at
their own expense.
Discrepancies or Omissions
Proponents finding discrepancies or omissions in the Request for Proposal documents or having
any doubts to the meaning or intent of any part thereof, should immediately notify the purchasing
contact, which may send instructions or explanations to all Proponents on record with the District.
Addenda or correspondence issued during the Request for Proposal period shall be considered
part of this document and become part of the final Contract documents. Except as provided by the
above paragraph; no additions or deletions from the contents of these documents will be permitted.
Proposal Validity
Under Form of Proposal, the Proponent is required to state the time duration their Proposal will be
valid for. The District may request to extend the Proposal validity duration beyond the stated time
with written notice to the Proponents.
Late Proposals
At the District’s sole discretion, it reserves the right to accept or reject Proposals received after the
closing time.
Acceptance and Rejections of Proposals
The lowest price Proposal or any Proposal will not necessarily be accepted. The District reserves
the right to accept a Proposal which, in its unfettered discretion, is deemed most advantageous to
the District. The District also reserves the right to reject any or all Proposals, in each case without
giving any notice, and without liability to any Proponent or Proponents. The District reserves the
right, in its sole discretion, to negotiate with any or all Proponents.
No “Contract A” obligation is formed as a result of this Invitation to Proposal.
Proposals that contain qualifying conditions or may otherwise fail to conform to the Instructions to
Proponents may be disqualified or rejected.
RFP\-2024\-08 4

Section A: Instructions to Proponents
The District also reserves the additional right, in its sole discretion, to waive irregularities in the
Proposal form, whether of a minor or a major nature.
Notwithstanding any other provision in the RFP document, the District has in its sole discretion, the
unfettered right to:
➢ accept any Proposal;
➢ reject any Proposal;
➢ reject all Proposals;
➢ accept a Proposal which is not the lowest Proposal;
➢ accept a Proposal that deviates from the Requirements, Specifications or the conditions
specified in this RFP;
➢ reject a Proposal even if it is the only Proposal received by the District;
➢ accept all or any part of a Proposal; and
➢ split the Requirements between one or more Proponents.
Purchase Approval
Prior to the award of a contract all equipment to be purchased may require approval by The District
of Logan Lake Municipal Council.
Specifications
Specifications are shown in Section C. Models and options proposed are to be stated and their
respective specifications submitted. All Proposals must be on new production models. The make,
model and year must be clearly shown on the Form of Proposal.
Contract Award
This RFP is NOT an order for goods or services, nor does it form a Contract with any Proponent. A
contract will be formed only when the District issues a Contract Award Letter to the successful
Proponent. Any resulting Contract will include all information contained within this RFP document,
any addendums, the Proponent’s Proposal, and negotiations, if any, initiated by the District.
Contract Negotiation
The District reserves the right to negotiate specific terms of the contract with the short\-listed
Proponent prior to the final award of the contract.
RFP\-2024\-08 5

Section A: Instructions to Proponents
Qualifications and Experience
All Proponents should furnish satisfactory evidence as required to demonstrate that they have the
qualifications and sufficiently trained and experienced personnel to complete the requirements of
the contract to the satisfaction of the District. The District reserves the right to make the final
decision, as it sees fit, as to whether or not the Proponent(s) that respond to this Request for
Proposal can satisfy this requirement.
References
The District requests that Proponents provide with their Proposals a list of companies with which
they are currently or have recently supplied equipment which is identical or similar to that which
you are proposing in this Request for Proposals. Please show date of contract, business name,
contact name, and phone number for each reference.
Prices
All prices are to be in Canadian currency excluding taxes. Specify any other prices separately on
the Form of Proposal. In cases of a discrepancy found between the unit price and the total amount,
the unit price shall be considered as being the intention of the Proponent.
Prices are to remain firm up to the date you have specified on the Form of Proposal.
Evaluation Criteria
Proposals will be evaluated on the basis of the overall best value and suitability to the District
based on quality, performance, costs, delivery, and any other criteria set out herein including:
➢ Proponents’ ability to meet the product requirements;
➢ Proven experience in delivering similar or identical products;
➢ Proponents’ ability to deliver the final product when and where required;
➢ Proponents financial offer including but not limited to prices, operating and maintenance
costs, technical support, and any other life cycle considerations;
➢ Warranty Program;
➢ Ease of Service and Parts availability;
➢ Proposal form and content, quality of proposal including innovative concepts; and
➢ Any other criteria set out in the RFP or otherwise reasonably considered relevant.
Parameter % of Evaluation
Experience and Qualifications 10%
References 10%
Scope 10%
Schedule/ Delivery 30%
Parts and Service 10%
Pricing 30%
RFP\-2024\-08 6

Section A: Instructions to Proponents
Demonstrations
Prior to the award, the District may request a demonstration to employees of the model bid for
evaluation. This demonstration is to be at no cost to the District. Failure to comply with this request
may be cause for rejection. The decision to request a demonstration lies solely with the District.
Training
The District reserves the right to request a reasonable amount of training time on safety and the
correct operating procedures for employees who will be using the equipment offered. Please
specify any additional charges for training on the Form of Proposal page.
Delivery
All deliveries are to be F.O.B. Destination, District of Logan Lake, Public Works Yard, 79 Meadow
Creek Rd (6880 HWY 97D), Logan Lake BC
Conflict of Interest
Proponents shall disclose any potential conflicts of interest and existing business relationships they
may have with the District. If requested by the District, Proponents must provide all pertinent
information regarding ownership of their company within forty\-eight (48\) hours of the District’s
request.
Solicitation of Council Members
Proponents and their agents will not contact any member of the District Council or District staff with
respect to this RFP at any time prior to the award of a contract or the termination of this RFP, and
the District may reject the Proposal of any Proponent that makes any such contact.
RFP\-2024\-08 7

Section A: Instructions to Proponents
Confidentiality
All Proposals become the property of the District and will not be returned to the Proponent. All
Proposals will be held in confidence by the District unless otherwise required by law. Proponents
should be aware the District is a “public body” defined by, and subject to the Freedom of
Information and Protection of Privacy Act of British Columbia.
Registration of Intent to Respond
Interested Proponents should complete and return the form titled “Appendix I Registration of
Intent to Respond” Failure to do so may result in your company not receiving addenda and other
correspondence related to this Invitation to Proposal.
End Section
Instructions to Proponents
RFP\-2024\-08 8

Section B: General Terms and Conditions
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
General Terms and Conditions
The general terms and conditions shall be part of any Contract awarded as a result of this RFP.
Submission of a Proposal in response to this RFP indicates acceptance of all the terms that follow
and that are included in any amendment and or addenda issued by the District. Provisions in
Proposals that contradict any of the terms of this RFP will be as if not written and do not exist.
Breach of Contract
If the contracted Supplier breaches any terms or conditions of the Contract, or becomes insolvent,
enters voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or receivership proceedings or makes an assignment for
the benefit of creditors, the District shall have the right (without limiting any other rights or remedies
which it may have hereunder or by operation of both) to terminate any Purchase by written notice
to the Supplier, whereupon the District shall be relieved of all further obligations hereunder except
the obligation to pay the reasonable value, as determined by the District, of the Supplier’s prior
performance (not exceeding the total value of the Contract Award) and the Supplier shall be liable
to the District for all costs incurred by the District in completing or procuring the completion of
performance in excess of the total value of the Contract Award Letter. The District’s right to require
strict performance of any obligation hereunder shall not be affected by any previous waiver,
forbearance or course of dealing.
Cancellation of Contract
If at anytime during the contract the Supplier fails to meet the requirements and/or expectations of
the District, the remainder of the contract may be cancelled by the District immediately upon notice
to the Supplier. Either party to this contract may cancel the contract upon thirty (30\) days’ written
notice to the other party.
Assignment or Sub\-letting of Contract
The Supplier shall keep the work under his personal control, and shall not, without the consent in
writing of the District, assign or sub\-let this contract or any part thereof. If the District should
consent to any such assignment or sub\-letting of this contract or part thereof the Supplier shall by
reason thereof be in no way relieved from their responsibility for the fulfillment of the work but shall
continue to be responsible for the same in the same manner as if the said work had been
performed by the Supplier themselves.
RFP\-2024\-08 9

Section B: General Terms and Conditions
Supplier’s Expense
The Supplier shall at his own expense, unless it is expressly stipulated to the contrary, provide,
supply, observe, perform and do everything which, in the opinion of the District, may be required
for the setting out, the execution and the completion of the work and the fulfilling of the contract.
Time is of the Essence
For all requests made by the District pursuant to the Supplier, time is of the essence.
Acceptability of Equipment
If the equipment ordered is unsuitable, or if quality is not satisfactory in the opinion of the District’s
Representative, whose opinion shall be final and binding, the District shall be entitled to refuse
delivery, or if delivery has been made, shall be entitled to a refund in respect of the whole or
portion returned, as the case may be.
Warranty
All warranty coverage must be specified. The warranty period and coverage for the equipment is to
commence from the date of acceptance and entrance into corporate service. In some cases, the
District may require a letter from the manufacturer of the proposed equipment stating that in the
event the supplier can no longer support the equipment, the manufacturer will designate a
recommended alternative. Failing that, the manufacturer will support the equipment.
Safety Regulations
All equipment offered must meet Canadian Federal and British Columbia Provincial safety
regulations.
Indemnity
The Supplier shall indemnify, protect, and save harmless the District, its officers, agents, servants,
and employees from and against all actions, claims, demands of any kind, description, and nature
whatsoever arising out of, or in any way connected with the fulfillment of its obligation in
accordance with the RFP; and all such actions, causes of actions, claims and demands
recoverable by any third party from the District of the property of the District, shall be paid by the
Supplier. If the District pays, or is required to pay, any damages, costs, or fees on account of the
actions, claims and demands herein recited, or if the property of the District shall be charged in any
way as a result of the aforesaid actions, causes of actions, claims for demands, then the District
shall be entitled to recover from the supplier all such damages, costs, fees, or other charges
together with any costs or expenses incurred in so doing from the Supplier.
RFP\-2024\-08 10

Section B: General Terms and Conditions
Deviation from Contract
The Supplier shall not make any alterations or variation in, or addition to, or deviation or omission
from the terms of the contract without the written consent of the District.
Invoices and Payment
The District will make payment for equipment only after the equipment ordered has been received,
inspected, accepted, and has been deemed suitable to be placed into service by the District.
The Supplier shall send invoices to: Attention: Jean Finlay, Accounts Payable – Re: Supply
and Install Chain Ling Fencing and Gates around Jasper Reservoir, District of Logan Lake,
Box 190, 1 Opal Drive, Logan Lake, BC V0K1W0\.
The name of the District’s Representative responsible should appear on all invoices sent to the
District.
Payment by the District shall then be made within the standard Net 30 days after the delivery to the
District’s Finance Department of properly prepared invoices, unless the payment terms offered by
the supplier are deemed an advantage to the District, or the District has deemed a portion of
payment is to be held back pending satisfactory completion of the contract.
Applicable Law
Each party’s performance hereunder shall comply with all applicable laws of British Columbia,
Canada. This contract shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the
Province of British Columbia. If any part, term or provision of this Agreement shall be held void,
illegal, unenforceable, or in conflict with any applicable law, the validity of the remaining portion of
provision shall not be affected hereby.
End Section
General Terms
RFP\-2024\-08 11

Section C: Specifications
SPECIFICATIONS
Proponents are required to submit detailed information on the requirements herein and to
verify that minimum specification requirements are satisfied. (Attachments including full list
of specifications proposed must be included as attachments in conjunction with completion
of this section.)
REFERENCES AND MINIMUM REQUIRMENTS VERIFY
DEALER TO PROVIDE SPECIFICATIONS OR
\*All accessories and add\-ons to be OEM (factory) CLAIRIFY DIFFERENCES \& VARIANCE FROM
YES NO
Unless clearly stated on proposal and agreed upon DISTRICTS REQUIREMENTS
by both parties
Supply and Install Approximately 575 ft of
8\-foot Chain link fencing and 2 Gates.
A. CHAIN LINK FENCING SPECS
1\. 96\-inch X 2 X 9 GA Galvanized Mesh
2\. Terminal Posts – Pipe Size and Guage
3\. Line Posts – Pipe size and Guage
4\. Top Rail \- Pipe size and Guage
5\. Three Strands of Barbed Wire included
B. GATES
1\. 1 \- 6’X8’ Single swing industrial Gate
2\. 1 \- 12’X8’ Double Swing Gate
C. OPTIONS
1\. To Upgrade Fencing and Gates to All
Black Powder Coated Materials
F. WARRANTIES
2\. State Standard Warranties.
3\. Show Costs for any Optional Extended
warranties Available in Appendix II, Form
of Proposal.
RFP\-2024\-08 12

End of Section Part C – Specifications
APPENDIX D – SUBMISSION FORM
Please fill out the following form, naming one person to be the respondent’s contact for the
RFQ process and for any clarifications or communication that might be necessary.
Full Legal Name of
Respondent:
Any Other Relevant Name
under which Respondent
Carries on Business:
Street Address:
City, Province/State:
Postal Code:
Phone Number:
Fax Number:
Company Website (if any):
Respondent Contact Name
and Title:
Respondent Contact Phone:
Respondent Contact Fax:
Respondent Contact Email:
Required Pricing Information
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE BREAKDOWN
Cost of Equipment $
Installation $
$
Other – please specify $
Taxes $
GST $
PST $
Total $0\.00
RFP\-2024\-08 13

MANDATORY SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS
1\. Submission Form (Appendix D)
Each proposal must include a Submission Form (Appendix D) completed and signed by an
authorized representative of the proponent.
2\. Pricing (Appendix D)
Each proposal must include pricing information that complies with the instructions contained in
Pricing (Appendix D).
D. PRE\-CONDITIONS OF AWARD
Successful candidate would require the following before finalizing contract:
A safety plan, WCB, COR, Insurance, Logan Lake Business license would be an asset.
E. RATED CRITERIA
The following sets out the categories, weightings and descriptions of the rated criteria of the RFP.
Proponents who do not meet a minimum threshold score for a category will not proceed to the next
stage of the evaluation process.
Rated Criteria Category Weighting (Points)
i. Experience and Qualifications 10
ii. References 10
iii. Scope 10
iv. Schedule 30
v. Parts and Service 10
Pricing (See Appendix C for details) 30
Total Points 100
Suggested Proposal Content for Non\-Price Criteria
i. Experience and Qualifications
Each proponent should provide the following in its proposal:
(a) a brief description of the proponent.
(b) a description of its knowledge, skills, and experience relevant to the Deliverables; and
(c) the roles and responsibilities of the proponent and any of its agents, employees and sub\-
contractors who will be involved in providing the Deliverables, together with the identity of
those who will be performing those roles and their relevant respective expertise.
RFP\-2024\-08 14

ii. References
Each proponent is requested to provide three (3\) references from clients who have obtained goods
or services similar to those requested in this RFP from the proponent in the last 5 years.
iii. Scope
Each proponent is requested to provide responses to the deliverables stated in appendix D.
Clearly respond to how the equipment in the proposal aligns with requirements.
iv. Schedule
Each proponent is requested to provide a brief statement on the schedule of the process, starting
from the award of the project. Include delivery of product, installation dates, training schedule and
project completion.
v. Parts and Service
Each proponent should provide the following in its proposal:
• Warranty
• What manuals would be provided?
• Parts availability
• Continued service or maintenance on the equipment.
End of Section Part D – Submission Form
RFP\-2024\-08 15

