PROVIDENCE HEALTH CARE
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
for
Facility Activation Planning Services
to the
The New St. Paul’s Hospital (NSPH) Redevelopment Project
Vancouver, British Columbia
RFP Number: 002RFP24EZ
RFP Closing Date: October 15, 2024
RFP Closing Time: 15:00 Hrs. Local Time
RFP Issuing Date: September 18, 2024
RFP Closing Location: Online Bidding System
https://fraserhealth.bonfirehub.ca/opportunities
RFP Contact Person: Elizabeth Zhu
Email: Elizabeth.Zhu@fraserhealth.ca
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 1 of 23

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1\. INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................................................................ 3
2\. INTERPRETATION .................................................................................................................................................... 3
3\. INSTRUCTIONS TO PROPONENTS ........................................................................................................................ 4
4\. PROPOSAL CONTENTS .......................................................................................................................................... 5
5\. EVALUATION, SELECTION AND AWARD .............................................................................................................. 6
6\. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS .................................................................................................................... 7
APPENDIX A: PROJECT SCOPE ............................................................................................................................... 11
APPENDIX B: PROPOSAL CONTENTS .................................................................................................................... 18
APPENDIX C.1: RELATIONSHIP DISCLOSURE FORM ........................................................................................... 21
APPENDIX C.2: FUNDING DISCLOSURE FORM ...................................................................................................... 22
APPENDIX D: SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS ........................................................................................................... 23
APPENDIX E: Confidentiality and Nondisclosure Agreement
APPENDIX F: General Service Agreement
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 2 of 23

1\. INTRODUCTION
1\.1 Purpose
1\.1\.1 Providence Health Care (the “Authority”) has issued this Request for Proposals (“RFP”), for the
purpose of inviting proposals from qualified proponents to undertake the services described in
Appendix ‘A’ to this RFP (the “Services”) with respect to the Project described in Appendix ‘A’ (the
“Project”).
1\.2 Form of Contract
1\.2\.1 The Authority intends that the contract between the successful Proponent and the Authority will
be based on the General Service Agreement included in Appendix ‘F’.
1\.3 Reference Documents
1\.3\.1 Reference documents will be made available to interested Proponents. In order to receive the
documents, the Proponent shall email a signed copy of the Confidentiality and Nondisclosure
agreement (See Appendix 'E') to the Contact Person no later than 5 business days before the
Closing Time
2\. INTERPRETATION
2\.1 Defined Terms
2\.1\.1 In this RFP:
2\.1\.1\.1 “Authority” has the meaning set out in section 1\.1\.1 of this RFP;
2\.1\.1\.2 “Client”” means customer, Health Agency, Health Authority;
2\.1\.1\.3 “Closing Location” has the meaning set out in section 3\.1\.1 of this RFP;
2\.1\.1\.4 “Closing Time” has the meaning set out in section 3\.1\.1 of this RFP;
2\.1\.1\.5 “Contact Person” has the meaning set out in section 3\.6\.1 of this RFP;
2\.1\.1\.6 “Contract” has the meaning set out in section 1\.2 of this RFP;
2\.1\.1\.7 “Evaluation Committee” has the meaning set out in section 5\.1 of this RFP;
2\.1\.1\.8 “Project” has the meaning set out in section 1\.1\.1 of this RFP;
2\.1\.1\.9 “Proponent” means an entity that submits a Proposal.
2\.1\.1\.10 “Proposal” means a proposal submitted in response to this RFP;
2\.1\.1\.11 “RFP” has the meaning set out in section 1\.1\.1 of this RFP;
2\.1\.1\.12 “Services” has the meaning set out in section 1\.1\.1 of this RFP; and
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 3 of 23

2\.1\.1\.13 “Online Bidding System” means the online bidding website established by the
Authority and located at the following website address:
https://fraserhealth.bonfirehub.ca/opportunities
2\.2 Industry Meanings
2\.2\.1 Words and phrases used in this RFP that are not expressly defined in this RFP and that have
acquired special meanings as generally known in the health care industry will be given such special
meanings.
3\. INSTRUCTIONS TO PROPONENTS
3\.1 Closing Time and Location
3\.1\.1 Proposals must be received on or before the following date and time (the “Closing Time”):
15:00 Hr. LOCAL TIME on October 15, 2024
at the following address (the “Closing Location”):
Online Bidding System
https://fraserhealth.bonfirehub.ca/opportunities
IT IS THE PROPONENT’S SOLE RESPONSIBILITY TO ENSURE ITS PROPOSAL IS RECEIVED AT THE
CLOSING LOCATION BY THE CLOSING TIME.
3\.2 Proposal Submission—See Appendix ‘D’.
3\.3 Faxes and E‐mails
3\.3\.1 Facsimile or e‐mail transmissions of Proposals, or amendments to Proposals, will not be
accepted.
3\.4 Late Proposals
3\.4\.1 Proposals received after the Closing Time will not be accepted and will not be considered. Late
Proposals will be returned to the Proponent upon the Proponent’s request at the Proponent’s
expense. In the event of a dispute, the Proposal receipt time as recorded at the Closing Location
shall prevail.
3\.5 Amendments to Proposals
3\.5\.1 Proposals may be amended but any amendment to a Proposal must be made in writing and
delivered to the Closing Location before the Closing Time.
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 4 of 23

3\.6 Inquiries
3\.6\.1 Proponents should direct all inquiries regarding the RFP to the following individual (the “Contact
Person”):
Elizabeth Zhu –Director, Facilities Management Procurement
E‐mail: Elizabeth.Zhu@fraserhealth.ca
3\.6\.2 All inquiries regarding the RFP, including with respect to the Services, should be directed to the
Contact Person by e‐mail. Inquiries and responses may be recorded and may be distributed to all
Proponents at the discretion of the Authority. Information obtained from any person or source
other than the Contact Person may not be relied upon.
3\.7 Discrepancies, Omissions and Questions
3\.7\.1 Proponents finding discrepancies, omission, ambiguities, or conflicts in this RFP, or having doubts
as to the meaning or intent of any provision, should immediately notify the Contact Person in
accordance with section 3\.6\. The Contact Person will review such submissions and, if the Authority
determines that an amendment is required to this RFP, the Contact Person will issue an addendum
in accordance with section 3\.8\.
3\.8 Addenda
3\.8\.1 If the Authority determines that an amendment is required to this RFP, the Contact Person will
issue a written addendum and post it to the Closing Location. Each addendum will be incorporated
into and become part of the RFP. No oral conversation will affect or modify the terms of this RFP
or may be relied upon by any Proponent. No amendment of any kind to the RFP, whether in
writing or oral, is effective unless it is contained in a written addendum issued by the Contact
Person.
3\.9 Validity of Pricing
3\.9\.1 Proponent’s pricing should remain valid for ninety (90\) business days from the closing date of the
RFP. In the event that the Authority requires more time than the ninety (90\) business days as
identified, additional time will be requested.
4\. PROPOSAL CONTENTS (also see Appendix B)
4\.1 Proposal Contents
4\.1\.1 Proposals should include responses to the items in Appendix ‘B’ in the order listed, cross‐
referencing any attachments included in the Proposal to the corresponding section number in
Appendix ‘B’.
4\.2 Suggested Page Limit
4\.2\.1 Proponents are encouraged to limit Proposals to no more than 20 single‐sided pages and 20 single‐
sided pages for resumes and appendices.
4\.3 Relationship Disclosure Form
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 5 of 23

4\.3\.1 Proponents should include with their Proposals a completed copy of Appendix C.1 (Relationship
Disclosure Form).
4\.3\.2 Each Proponent, including each member of a Proponent’s team, is expected to fully disclose all
relationships they may have with the Authorities (as defined in Appendix C.1\) or any staff or
former staff of the Authorities or any other person who has been involved in the RFP or the
design, planning or implementation of the Project.
4\.3\.3 With any relationship disclosure, the Proponent should include sufficient information and
documentation to demonstrate that appropriate measures have been or will be implemented to
mitigate, minimize or eliminate the actual, perceived or potential conflict of interest or unfair
advantage, as may be applicable. The Proponent will provide such additional information and
documentation and implement such additional measures as the Authority may require in its
discretion in connection with the Authority’s consideration of the disclosed relationship and
proposed measures.
4\.4 Funding Disclosure Form
4\.4\.1 Proponents should include with their Proposals a completed copy of Appendix C.2 (Funding
Disclosure Form).
5\. EVALUATION, SELECTION AND AWARD
5\.1 Evaluation Committee
5\.1\.1 The evaluation of Proposals will be undertaken on behalf of the Authority by an evaluation
committee (“Evaluation Committee”) appointed by the Authority. The Evaluation Committee
may consult with others as the Committee may in its discretion decide is required; including
Authority staff members and third party consultants. The Evaluation Committee will provide a
recommendation for the selection of a preferred Proponent to the Authority.
5\.2 Evaluation Criteria
5\.2\.1 The Evaluation Committee will compare and evaluate Proposals to determine the Proposal which
is most advantageous to the Authority, using the following criteria:
Section(1\) Evaluation Criteria Points
Proponent’s Organizational Structure and Resources
Appendix B 4\.1‐4\.2 10
Proponent's Organizational Project Experience, Experience of
Appendix B 4\.3‐4\.6 Key Proponent Staff, and References 30
Proponent's Proposed Methodology, Approach to Project,
Appendix B 3\.1‐3\.3 Milestone Schedule and Value‐Added Services 35
Proponent’s Financial Proposal
Appendix B 5\.1‐5\.3 25
Total Rated Points 100
5\.2\.2 The Evaluation Committee may apply the evaluation criteria on a comparative basis, evaluating
the Proposals by comparing one Proponent’s Proposal to another Proponent’s Proposal.
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 6 of 23

5\.3 Clarifications
5\.3\.1 The Evaluation Committee may, at its discretion, request clarifications from a Proponent with
respect to its Proposal, and the Evaluation Committee may make such requests to only selected
Proponents. The Evaluation Committee may consider such clarifications in evaluating Proposals.
5\.4 Interviews
5\.4\.1 The Evaluation Committee may, at its discretion, invite some or all of the Proponents to appear
before the Evaluation Committee to provide clarifications of their Proposals. In such event, the
Evaluation Committee will be entitled to consider the answers received in evaluating Proposals.
5\.5 Selection and Contract Negotiation
5\.5\.1 If, following the evaluation and recommendation of the Evaluation Committee under Section
5\.1, the Authority selects a preferred Proponent then the Authority will invite the preferred
Proponent to enter into negotiations to finalize a contract for the Services.
5\.5\.2 The Contract will be generally in the form of the General Service Agreement included in
Appendix ‘F’ and with such further amendments as are:
5\.5\.2\.1 Proposed by the Proponent in its Proposal (see Section 5 of Appendix ‘B’) and accepted
by the Authority (the Authority is not obligated to accept any proposed amendments or
contract terms); and
5\.5\.2\.2 Proposed by the Authority and agreed to by the Proponent;
5\.5\.3 Award of a contract is in all cases conditional on the Proponent agreeing to a contract on terms
and conditions that are acceptable to the Authority.
5\.5\.3\.1 If negotiations with a preferred Proponent are not successful within such time period as
the Authority may require, or if at any time the Authority reasonably concludes that a
mutually acceptable contract is unlikely to be reached, then the Authority may
discontinue talks with that Proponent by written notice to the Proponent, and the
Authority may:
5\.5\.3\.1\.1 Invite another Proponent to enter into the interview process to finalize a
Contract in accordance with the foregoing process; or
5\.5\.3\.1\.2 Terminate this RFP and proceed with the Project in any manner the Authority
may decide is required.
5\.6 Debriefing
5\.6\.1 If a Contract is awarded, an unsuccessful Proponent may request a debriefing at which the
Authority will generally explain why the Proponent’s Proposal was not successful. If a Proponent
requests a debriefing:
5\.6\.1\.1 The debriefing will be solely between the Authority and the Proponent requesting the
debriefing; and
5\.6\.1\.2 The debriefing will not include disclosure or discussion of any other Proponent’s Proposal.
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 7 of 23

6\. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
6\.1 Right of the Authority to Reject Proposals and Cancel RFP
6\.1\.1 This RFP is not a tender and does not commit the Authority to select a preferred Proponent, accept
any Proposal, proceed to negotiations for a Contract or award any contract. The Authority
reserves the right in its sole discretion to postpone or cancel this RFP at any time for any reason
whatsoever in accordance with the Authority’s judgment of its best interests and to proceed with
the Project or the Services in some other manner separate from this RFP.
6\.2 Proponent’s Expenses
6\.2\.1 Proponents are solely responsible for all their own costs and expenses in relation to this RFP,
including the cost of preparing and submitting a Proposal, attending information meetings if
applicable, attending interviews or meetings with the Authority during the evaluation of
Proposals, and negotiating, finalizing and executing of a Contract with the Authority if the
Proponent is selected as the preferred Proponent.
6\.3 No Claims
6\.3\.1 By submitting a Proposal, each Proponent:
6\.3\.1\.1 Agrees that the Authority and its employees, advisors and representatives will not under
any circumstances be liable for any costs, expenses, claims, losses, damages or liabilities
which are or may be incurred or suffered by any Proponent arising from or in any way
connected to the RFP including if the Authority accepts a materially non‐compliant
proposal or otherwise breaches any express or implied term of the RFP; and
6\.3\.1\.2 Waives any and all claims against the Authority or any of its employees, advisors or
representatives.
6\.4 Liability for Errors
6\.4\.1 While the Authority has attempted to ensure an accurate presentation of information in this RFP,
the information contained in this RFP is supplied solely as a guideline for all Proponents. The
information is not guaranteed or warranted to be accurate by the Authority, nor is it necessarily
comprehensive or exhaustive. Nothing in this RFP is intended to relieve all Proponents from
forming their own opinions and conclusions with respect to the matters addressed in this RFP.
6\.5 Confidentiality
6\.5\.1 Proposals will be treated in confidence. The Authority will not release to the public any specific
information regarding any Proposal except as may be required by law. Proponents will treat all
information received through the RFP process as confidential.
6\.6 Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (FOIPPA)
6\.6\.1 The Authority is subject to legislation governing the protection of personal privacy and as such,
records are subject to access under FOIPPA. FOIPPA governs the collection, use, retention,
security, and disclosure of personal information managed by public organizations. FOIPPA also
applies to all electronic information accessed or submitted by Proponents. If Proposals contain
protected, proprietary or confidential information, Proponents should identify the specific issue
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 8 of 23

or information and provide supporting reasons why the Authority should NOT release this
information if requested by FOIPPA inquiry.
6\.7 Ownership of Proposals
6\.7\.1 All Proposals submitted become the property of the Authority.
6\.8 Working Language
6\.8\.1 The working language of the Authority is English and all Proposals must be in English.
6\.9 Canadian Free Trade Agreement (CFTA)
6\.9\.1 This procurement is subject to Chapter 5 of the Canadian Free Trade Agreement.
6\.10 New West Partnership Trade Agreement ‐ (NWPTA)
6\.10\.1 The Authority and this RFP is subject to the terms and conditions of the New West Partnership
Trade Agreement (NWPTA) between British Columbia, Alberta and Saskatchewan.
6\.11 Policies and Standards
6\.11\.1 This RFP is subject to Policies and Standards posted at Fraser Health website.
http://www.fraserhealth.ca/about‐us/business‐opportunities/
6\.12 Time is of the Essence
6\.12\.1 Time is of the essence in this RFP.
6\.13 Agreement to RFP Terms
6\.13\.1 Proponents should note that the Authority does not consider the terms and conditions pertaining
to indemnity, liability, insurance and privacy to be negotiable.
6\.13\.2 By submitting a Proposal, the Proponent confirms that it has read, and agrees to be bound by,
the RFP and any Addenda.
6\.14 Online Bidding System
6\.14\.1 By submitting a Proposal, each Proponent agrees to the following terms related to use of the
Online Bidding System:
6\.14\.1\.1 Compatibility of Proponent’s Computer System. Each Proponent is solely responsible
for ensuring that its computer hardware and software are compatible with that required
to use the Online Bidding System.
6\.14\.1\.2 Online Documents and Communications. Each Proponent acknowledges that online
documents and / or communications may be distorted in the process of transmission or
may be displayed differently to different Proponents for technical reasons related to
their computer systems. It is the responsibility of each Proponent to ensure it has
received all information related to this RFP and the accuracy of all documents and
communications the Proponent provides to the Authority.
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 9 of 23

6\.14\.1\.3 Access Information Security. Each Proponent will keep its ID, password, personal
identification number and / or online signature (collectively the “Access Information”)
strictly confidential, and will notify Online Bidding System promptly if any such
information is lost or stolen or if the Proponent becomes aware of any unauthorized use
of the Online Bidding System or Access Information. Each Proponent warrants that it has
put in place, and will at all times maintain, reasonable security procedures regarding use
of the Online Bidding System. The Authority will not be responsible to confirm the
identity or authority of any individual using is under no obligation to confirm the actual
identity or authority of any individual using the Proponent’s Access Information.
6\.14\.1\.4 No Warranties. The Online Bidding System is provided on an as is, as available basis.
The Authority specifically disclaim any warranties, representations and conditions of any
kind, whether express or implied, including without limitation implied warranties,
representations and conditions of non‐infringement, availability, security, reliability,
accuracy, fitness for a particular purpose or merchantability.
6\.14\.1\.5 Limitation of Liability. The Authority, and any employee, agent or representative of any
of them, cannot guarantee continual, uninterrupted or error free service as disruptions
or malfunctions may delay, interfere with or disrupt the online bidding process,
including the online transmission and receipt of Proposals. Each Proponent that uses the
Online Bidding System acknowledges that the submission of Proposals is conducted
online and relies on hardware and software that may malfunction without warning.
Without limiting section 6\.3 of this RFP, no Proponent will have any claim against the
Authority for compensation as a result of the disruption or malfunction of the Online
Bidding System, including in relation to: (i) inability to access or use or delays in
accessing or using the Online Bidding System; (ii) unauthorized access to, use,
disclosure, or alteration of information submitted by a Proponent, or unauthorized use
or misuse of any Access Information; (iii) acts of any third party using the services; or (iv)
any other matter relating to the services or the content accessible through use of the
Online Bidding System.
6\.15 Reservation of Rights Related to Conflicts of Interest / Unfair Advantage
6\.15\.1 The Authority reserves the right to disqualify any Proponent that in the Authority’s opinion has a
conflict of interest or an unfair advantage, whether real, perceived, existing now or likely to arise
in the future, or may permit the Proponent to continue and impose such conditions as the
Authority may consider to be in the public interest or otherwise required by the Authority. Refer
to Sections 4\.3 and 4\.4 above regarding relationship and funding disclosure forms.
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 10 of 23

APPENDIX A: PROJECT SCOPE
APPENDIX A: PROJECT OVERVIEW and SCOPE of SERVICES
1\. PROJECT OVERVIEW
Providence Health Care (PHC) has been providing compassionate health care services in the City of Vancouver
and Province of British Columbia for over 125 years.
St. Paul’s Hospital (St. Paul’s) has become a renowned acute care, teaching and research hospital, serving more
than 174,000 patients annually, who account for over 500,000 visits per year. Patients come from the local
community and all over B.C. for specialized care. St. Paul’s is recognized as a global leader in treating complex
health care needs, including care for the majority of Vancouver’s higher risk populations. The hospital is home to
many world‐class medical and surgical programs, including heart and lung services, HIV/AIDS, mental health
substance use care, emergency, intensive care, maternity care, kidney care, senior care, urban health, family and
community medicine and numerous surgical specialties.
Recognizing the constraints and issues associated with the current St. Paul’s Hospital site, Providence Health Care
acquired an 18\.38‐acre parcel of land in 2004, referred to as the Station Street site located on the False Creek Flats
in Vancouver, and has been planning for the new hospital and health campus since that time.
Figure 1: Station Street Site Plan, Future Location of the new St. Paul’s Hospital and CSRC.
The Station Street Site is approximately 3 kilometres from the current St. Paul’s Hospital location, while still
conveniently on the edge of downtown. This RFP is for the core Hospital. The Clinical Support and Research
Centre (CSRC) and future phases are not included in this RFP scope.
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 11 of 23

The New St. Paul’s Hospital includes a Design‐Build new construction of the 11‐storey core Hospital (Acute Care
Centre and Outpatient Care Centre) with four levels of underground parking and support services on P2\. There are
two towers — an 11‐storey east tower and a 9‐storey west tower, connected from the parkade to the 9th floor.
The new hospital will have capacity for 548 beds, which is 115 more beds than the existing facility.
The New St. Paul’s Hospital facility will be approximately 2,000,000\+ sf (185,000\+ m²) and, in accordance with the
Functional Program, will include the following components: Emergency Department, Urban Health and
Integrated Mental Health and Substance Use, Surgical and Interventional Platform, Scopes and Minor
Procedures, Critical and High Acuity Care Unit, Pregnancy Birthing and Newborn Centre, Medical Imaging,
Inpatient Beds, Centre for Healthy Aging and Rehabilitation, Outpatient Care Centre, Clinical Support and
Operational Support, food services, loading dock, AGVs, energy centre, exterior amenities, and a command
centre.
At completion of the New St. Paul’s Hospital, the floor‐by‐floor overview is outlined as follows:
Additional Project reference material:
1\. St. Paul’s Hospital: https://www.providencehealthcare.org/hospitals‐residences/st‐pauls‐
hospital/overview
2\. The New St. Paul’s Hospital Redevelopment Project: https://thenewstpauls.ca/
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 12 of 23

3\. Schematic Drawing: What Goes Where In Our New Hospital? (Available upon submitting Appendix E)
4\. Department Plans: Parkade Levels P4 to P1 and Levels 1 to 11 (Available upon submitting Appendix E)
2\. PROJECT INFORMATION
2\.1 Project Scope
2\.1\.1 PHC is developing a comprehensive Transition Plan that includes facility activation, training and
orientation, fit‐up, new equipment delivery and commissioning, project handover and close out
plan, and other relevant plans. PHC will put in place a governance structure to oversee the
execution of its transition plan.
2\.1\.2 This RFP is issued for services related to facility activation planning, which will include
comprehensive planning and sequencing of activities related to space fit‐up, space readiness
validation, day‐in‐the‐life (DITL) scenario testing, education, training and orientation, terminal
clean, and other relevant plans. The Proponent will provide input to and feedback on the overall
Transition Plan, among other requirements.
2\.1\.3 The New St. Paul’s Hospital (NSPH) Project goals for facility activation are the following:
2\.13\.1 Ensure space is ready, functional, and safe to welcome staff, patients, and visitors;
2\.1\.3\.2 Staff and physicians to be fully orientated and trained to function safely in their future
work environment;
2\.1\.3\.3 Coordinate efforts between all clinical, facilities management, and support services
with an integrated plan;
2\.1\.3\.4 Provide clear, accurate and timely communications to relevant participants and
collaborators;
2\.1\.3\.5 Mitigate risks that could impact the building and people readiness.
2\.2 Project Assumptions for Facility Activation
2\.2\.1 The facility activation period will be approximately 6‐8 months, from service commencement
(i.e. substantial completion). Refer to Reference Documents for more specifics on anticipated
milestone dates.
2\.2\.2 The Authority will not have access to the NSPH facility before service commencement, with the
exception of access required to achieve the following activities:
2\.2\.2\.1 Presently reviewing considerations for early access prior to Service Commencement to
proceed with the delivery, set‐up, installation and commissioning of some Authority
Equipment (i.e.: medical and IMIT equipment) and other related tasks such as the
management of packaging waste.
2\.2\.2\.2 6 months prior to service commencement: The Authority’s Facilities Maintenance and
Operations (FMO) will operate the Energy Centre
2\.2\.2\.3 Participate in key building commissioning activities led by Project Co (i.e.: witness
equipment start‐ups, equipment functional and acceptance testing, attend superuser
training on building/infrastructure equipment)
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 13 of 23

2\.2\.3 The Proponent will support facility activation planning for the NSPH facility, excluding the
parkade.
2\.3 Project Schedule
2\.3\.1 The NSPH facility is expected to be available for Authority activities in Q3 of 2026\. It is
anticipated the Authority will have 6 ‐ 8 months from the Service Commencement to implement
the facility activation plan and prepare for the first patient.
2\.3\.2 The Proponent will provide sufficient capacity, dedicated staff and resources to undertake the
project and deliverables to meet the project schedule.
3\. SCOPE OF SERVICES
3\.1 Services
3\.1 .1 The services (the “Services”) are consulting, project management, and implementation support
with respect to the facility activation planning. Facility activation planning consists of
developing a comprehensive strategy that supports the planning and coordination of all tasks
and training required to prepare the new facility to welcome staff, patients and visitors in a safe
and functional environment. It is imperative that the provider of these facility activation
consulting services has extensive experience and is in the business of providing these services in
the realm of health care infrastructure projects.
3\.2\. Proponent Project Team
3\.2\.1 The Proponent will assemble a competent project team of experienced Key Individuals to ensure
the execution of the services are provided in a timely and coordinated manner. Where a Key
Individual becomes unavailable to perform the duties, any proposed replacement will possess
expertise and experience that is similar to that of the unavailable Key Individual, and any such
replacement is subject to approval of the Authority.
3\.2\.2 The Proponent’s project team will be integrated with the overarching NSPH Project team and
PHC operational readiness team, working collaboratively for efficient achievement of goals and
results. The Proponent will customize their approach to the culture and needs identified by
Project and PHC leadership.
3\.3 Overall Project Management
3\.3\.1 Provide a suite of project management documentation to structure the kick‐off of Facility
Activation planning with the Authority team.
3\.3\.2 Provide a project management framework, including a decision‐making governance structure
with clear roles and responsibilities to support the organization throughout the facility activation
period.
3\.3\.4 Participate in periodic meetings to provide advice and guidance to the Authority. Align facility
activation strategy and integrate facility activation planning deliverables with existing project
planning assumptions and other key project deliverables and milestones such as:
3\.3\.4\.1 Overall NSPH project schedule;
3\.3\.4\.2 Project Co’s construction schedule;
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 14 of 23

3\.3\.4\.3 Building commissioning plan, which includes the commissioning schedule;
3\.3\.4\.4 Operational readiness planning;
3\.3\.4\.5 Equipment procurement and delivery schedule;
3\.3\.4\.6 Move planning.
3\.3\.5 Provide progress reports and lookahead schedules utilizing the Authority’s preferred software
platform (Smartsheet). Frequency of reporting may change from bi‐monthly, monthly, to
weekly based on the phase of planning.
3\.3\.6 Provide and maintain a risk register in Smartsheet to identify, monitor and escalate project risks,
including recommendations for risk response strategies .
3\.4 Facility Activation Strategy
3\.4\.1 Provide support and expertise for the NSPH’s facility activation planning to identify, define,
organize and schedule NSPH’s operational and building readiness planning and execution tasks
to ensure the new facility is fully operational on the first patient day, efficiently and with as little
disruption as possible.
3\.4\.2 Develop a facility activation strategy prioritizing programs/services based on complexity, effort
and/or clinical access required to inform facility activation sequence of work.
3\.4\.3 Advise on resource requirements for facility activation, including project team support and early
activators (i.e. champion/superuser for each program/service that will have early access to
execute facility activation related tasks).
3\.4\.4 Advise on the development of one‐time facility activation budget, including one‐time cost
estimates
3\.4\.5 Conduct training sessions with the Authority’s facility activation leads on provided tools and
templates
3\.4\.6 Provide Activation Command Centre’s operational terms of reference, tools and templates for
recording and tracking activation related issues, planning advice and guidance
3\.4\.7 Remain actively engaged with the Authority team throughout the complete facility activation
period to offer guidance and support as tasks are executed.
3\.5 Facility Activation Master Schedule
3\.5\.1 Develop a multidisciplinary facility activation schedule to identify critical dates, milestones,
execution interdependencies and predecessor tasks that will coordinate facility readiness with
key occupancy activities. The schedule’s sequential strategy is to include, at minimum:
3\.5\.1\.1 Cleaning (post construction and terminal)
3\.5\.1\.2 FF\&E installation and commissioning
3\.5\.1\.3 IT deployment/installation
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 15 of 23

3\.5\.1\.4 Licensing/permits/certifications
3\.5\.1\.5 Fit up
3\.5\.1\.1\.1 Owner purchased Furniture, Fixture and Equipment Install / Fit up
3\.5\.1\.1\.2 IT Devices Fit up
3\.5\.1\.1\.3 Consumable Fit up / Supply Delivery
3\.5\.1\.1\.4 Medication Fit up
3\.5\.1\.6 Clinical commissioning of the space
3\.5\.1\.7 Facilities Management Training
3\.5\.1\.8 Staff orientation \& training
3\.5\.1\.9 Day‐in‐the‐life scenario testing
3\.5\.2 Ensure all facility activation and transition activities are identified and logistically planned using
a comprehensive and integrated approach;
3\.5\.3 Demonstrate integration of building and operational readiness;
3\.5\.4 Provide guidance in developing a facility cleaning sequence based on the Authority’s
environmental services and infection control policies:
3\.5\.5 Advise on equipment planning, fit‐up, and procurement to validate that an effective schedule
and process is in place for preparations for first patient day
3\.6 Facility Activation Planning Tools/Templates
3\.6\.1 Develop program/service specific facility activation work plans and/or templates, which include
building and operational readiness validation tasks for early activators
3\.6\.2 Provide a customizable activation guide template, including orientation material, that
communicates pertinent information to the organization and key partners related to rules of
engagement and processes throughout the facility activation period
3\.6\.3 Provide examples of room readiness summary sheets to be completed by clinical early activators
3\.6\.4 Review, comment, and advise on documentation and deliverables produced by the Authority in
the scope of facility activation planning work
3\.7 Education, Training, and Orientation (ETO)
3\.7\.1 Provide guidance in developing a comprehensive ETO plan
3\.7\.2 Compile superuser training information into an ETO schedule that is integrated with the facility
activation master schedule
3\.7\.3 Coordinate with the Commissioning Authority and utilize the building commissioning schedule
to develop an ETO schedule.
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 16 of 23

3\.7\.4 Coordinate with the Authority’s teams (i.e. Equipment team, IT team, Professional Practice,
etc.) to collect list of trainings provided by vendors.
3\.7\.5 Provide templates/examples of a general orientation manual which typically includes a vision,
operating assumptions, workflows, basic information about the building such as hours of
operation, security information, support services expectations, and floor plans.
3\.8 Day‐in‐the‐Life (DITL) Scenario Testing
3\.8\.1 Identify and document detailed DITL scenario scripts focusing on intra and interdepartmental
processes and handoffs in collaboration with clinical teams.
3\.8\.2 Identify equipment, systems, supplies, etc. that must be installed and commissioned prior to
DITL events
3\.8\.3 Plan and facilitate a series of multidisciplinary in‐situ simulations, including a DITL testing
schedule and resource requirements (i.e. staff, material, system, etc.)
3\.8\.4 Facilitate and document post DITL scenario testing debrief sessions with participants, including
a prioritized list of changes required to the processes, workflows and/or the physical
environment based on the learnings from the simulations.
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 17 of 23

Appendix B: Proposal Contents
APPENDIX B: PROPOSAL CONTENTS
1\. Executive Summary
1\.1\. Proponent(s) should provide a brief summary of their Proposal.
2\. Name(s) and Contact Information
2\.1\. Provide the Proponent’s legal and business name, locations (mailing \& street addresses), phone, email,
toll free phone number and website address.
2\.2\. Provide the name, title, address, telephone/mobile numbers and email address of the Primary
Proponent contact that will have overall responsibility for the execution of the Contract responsibilities.
3\. Approach and Methodology
3\.1\. A summary illustrating the Proponent’s understanding of the project and the goals of the Owner.
3\.2\. A summary of the Proponent’s proposed approach and as appropriate, challenge current business
practices and identify creative “best practices” which may benefit both the Owner and the Proponent.
3\.3\. The Proponent’s methodology and outputs in providing the Services to demonstrate their qualifications
and experience to perform the Services. Include the following:
3\.3\.1\. Details of the proposed project management methodology, tools, and outputs;
3\.3\.2\. Describe how methods will support the Authority’s needs through facility activation planning and
staff readiness;
3\.3\.3\. Describe the strategies the Proponent will implement to work effectively with the Authority;
3\.3\.4\. Provide a schedule including milestone deliverables and individual elements of the Services and
Project in a bar chart or critical path format;
3\.3\.5\. The Proponent’s value added services.
4\. Company Profile: Qualifications, Experience, Resources
4\.1\. Provide description of the Proponent’s team with an organizational chart with management team
information that:
4\.1\.1\. identifies any proposed sub‐consultants;
4\.1\.2\. identifies key staff (including sub‐consultants’ key staff) and roles;
4\.1\.3\. illustrates the Proponent’s structure, management, staffing, support structure for the provision
and delivery of the Services.
4\.2\. For each key staff identified above, provide a short bio, role on project, time commitment and point
form list of relevant project experience including past experience working with the Authority, and/or
other BC or Canadian health authorities.
4\.3\. Provide resumes for key staff (including sub‐consultants’ key staff) in an appendix.
4\.4\. Describe the Proponent’s experience in providing facility activation consultant services for three similar
projects.
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 18 of 23

4\.4\.1\. Similar projects to meet the following criteria:
4\.4\.1\.1\. a new acute care facility greater than 75,000m2 with extensive use of technology and
complex systems
4\.4\.1\.2\. ideally, a greenfield project site that is Owner‐operated
4\.4\.2\. For each project, include:
4\.4\.2\.1\. project description;
4\.4\.2\.2\. key challenges and corresponding response methodology/solutions;
4\.4\.2\.3\. key benefits/value adds contributed;
4\.4\.2\.4\. Proponent’s key personnel; and
4\.4\.2\.5\. Client Reference, including the name of each organization, contact person, title and phone
number.
4\.5\. From the projects identified above, provide the following case studies:
4\.5\.1\. Describe when a significant risk happened and how mitigation plans were executed;
4\.5\.2\. Describe when a planning challenge occurred and its resolution;
4\.5\.3\. Describe how technology was utilized to enhance facility activation planning and execution.
5\. Financial Proposal
5\.1\. Provide the Proponent’s pricing details in the form of a fixed‐fee proposal, with a breakdown that
corresponds with the scope of Services by phase and deliverable, as described in Appendix A; exclusive
of GST.
Section Services Breakout Pricing
3\.2, 3\.3, 3\.6 Project Planning \& Management $
(Proponent Project Team, Overall Project
Management, Facility Activation Planning
Tools/Templates)
3\.4 Facility Activation Strategy $
3\.5 Facility Activation Master Schedule $
3\.7 Education, Training, and Orientation (ETO) $
3\.8 Day‐in‐the‐Life (DITL) Scenario Testing $
Total Lump Sum Price: $
The Authority may elect to modify the scope of Services and the associated fees in contract
negotiations with the preferred Proponent.
5\.2\. All prices and fees referred to in Proposals will be in Canadian funds and include all applicable taxes and
charges except for Goods and Services Tax (GST), which should be identified separately. The
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 19 of 23

Proponent’s proposal will identify all fees, sub‐consultants and services offered to complete the
Services.
5\.3\. Identify any required variations to material terms and conditions of the Contract, identifying the
reasoning behind the proposed revision. The Authority is not bound to accept any proposed variations.
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 20 of 23

APPENDIX C.1: RELATIONSHIP DISCLOSURE FORM
The Proponent declares on its own behalf and on behalf of each member of the Proponent’s team that:
a) this declaration is made to the best of the knowledge of the Proponent and, with respect to relationships
of each member of the Proponent’s team, to the best of the knowledge of that member.
b) the following is a full disclosure of all known relationships that the Proponent and each member of the
Proponent’s team has, or has had, with:
i. the Authority;
ii. any employees of the Authority;
iii. any former employees of the Authority who ceased to hold such position within one calendar
year prior to the Closing Time; and/or
iv. any other person who, on behalf of the Authority, has been involved in the RFP or the design,
planning or implementation of the Project.
Name of Party with Relationship
Name of Proponent
(e.g., list Authority, employee of Details of the Nature of the Relationship
Team member
Authority, etc.)
e.g. John Smith Authority Employee of Authority from 19XX – 20XX
e.g. Firm Name Ltd. Authority Firm Name Ltd. is working with Authority on
Project X.
(Each Proponent Team should submit one form. Add additional pages as may be required. Disclosures for a
company only need to be provided once and not repeated for every individual of that company).
NAME OF PROPONENT
Address
Email Address
Telephone
Name of Authorized Signatory for Proponent
Signature
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 21 of 23

APPENDIX C.2: FUNDING DISCLOSURE FORM
The Proponent declares on its own behalf and on behalf of each member of the Proponent’s team that the
following is a full disclosure of all funding support (including gifts), if applicable, that has been provided by the
Proponent or any member of the Proponent’s team to the Authority during the 3 (three) year period prior to the
date of issuance of this RFP.
TYPE OF FUNDING SITE/ MARKET
DEPARTMENT RECIPIENT
SUPPORT LOCATION VALUE
Capital Equipment
Seminars
Travel
Supplies
Educational Support
Research Support
 Drug Trials
 Projects
 Publications
 Other
Major Donations
Other Funding (specify)
Corporate Agreement
TOTAL
NAME OF PROPONENT
Address
Email Address
Telephone
Name of Authorized Signatory for Proponent
Signature
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 22 of 23

APPENDIX D: Submission Instructions
Please follow these instructions to submit via our Public Portal.
1\. Document Availability: the RFP documents are available for download at
https://fraserhealth.bonfirehub.ca/opportunities
2\. Prepare your submission materials:
Requested Information
Name Type \# Files Requirement
Appendix C.1 and
File Type: PDF (.pdf) 1 Appendix C.1 and Appendix C.2
Appendix C.2
Contain your entire response excluding
SCOPE Proposal File Type: PDF (.pdf) 1
Appendix C.1, Appendix C. 2 and the fee.
FEE Proposal File Type: PDF (.pdf) 1 Only contain your Fee proposal
Requested Documents:
Please note the type and number of files allowed. No ZIP files please.
The maximum upload file size is 100 MB.
Please do not embed any documents within your uploaded files, as they will not be accessible or evaluated.
3\. Upload your submission at: https://fraserhealth.bonfirehub.ca/opportunities
Your submission must be uploaded, submitted, and finalized prior to the Closing Time. We strongly recommend
that you give yourself sufficient time and at least ONE (1\) hour before Closing Time to begin the uploading
process and to finalize your submission.
Important Notes:
Each item of Requested Information is instantly sealed and will only be visible after the Closing Time.
Proposals will be opened in private by the Authority after the Closing Time
Uploading large documents may take significant time, depending on the size of the file(s) and your Internet
connection speed.
You will receive an email confirmation receipt with a unique confirmation number once you finalize your
submission.
Minimum system requirements: Internet Explorer 8/9/10\+, Google Chrome, or Mozilla Firefox. Javascript must be
enabled.
Need Help?
The Authority uses a Bonfire portal for accepting and evaluating proposals digitally. Please contact Bonfire at
Support@GoBonfire.com for technical questions related to your submission. You can also visit their help forum at
https://bonfirehub.zendesk.com/hc
NSPH REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL: Facility Activation Planning Services Page 23 of 23

Appendix E
CONFIDENTIALITY AND NONDISCLOSURE AGREEMENT
WHEREAS, Providence Health Care agrees to furnish confidential information relating the RFP for the Facility
Activation Planning Services to the New St. Paul's Hospital Redevelopment Project;
WHEREAS, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(Company Name) agrees to review, examine, inspect or obtain such
confidential information only for the purposes described herein, and to otherwise hold such information
confidential pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
BE IT KNOWN, that Providence Health Care has or shall furnish to \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(Company Name)
certain confidential information and may further allow \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(Company Name) the right to
discuss or interview representatives of Providence Health Care, approved service providers and stakeholders
on the following conditions:
1\. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(Company Name) agrees to hold confidential ("confidential information") in trust and
confidence and agrees that it shall be used only for the contemplated purposes, shall not be used for any
other purpose, or disclosed to any third party.
2\. No copies will be made or retained of any written information or prototypes supplied without the permission of
Providence Health Care.
3\. At the conclusion of any discussions, or upon demand by Providence Health Care, all confidential
information, including prototypes, written notes, photographs, sketches, models, memoranda or notes taken
shall be returned to Providence Health Care.
4\. Both parties recognize and agree that the disclosure of the Confidential information shall cause irreparable
damage to the provider and in the event of a breach of this Agreement, or to prevent a breach or
contemplated breach, Providence Health Care shall be entitled to relief including injunction and specific
performance, in addition to all other remedies available at law or equity.
5\. Confidential information shall not be disclosed to any employee, consultant or third party unless they agree to
execute and be bound by the terms of this Agreement, and have been approved by Providence Health Care.
6\. This Agreement and its validity, construction and effect shall be governed by the laws of British Columbia.
AGREED AND ACCEPTED BY:
Company Name:
Please print
Authorized Person: Title:
Please print
Date:
Signature
Authorized Person: Title:
Please print
Date:
Signature

Appendix F
GENERAL SERVICE AGREEMENT
For Administrative Purposes Only
Contract No.
Project No. :
Project Name:
Contractor Information
Contractor Name: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Telephone No.: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
E‐mail Address: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Province GSA Template version: February 20, 2020

TABLE OF CONTENTS
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
No. Heading Page
1\. Definitions .............................................................................................................................................. 1
1\.1 General ................................................................................................................................ 1
1\.2 Meaning of ʺrecordʺ .......................................................................................................... 2
2\. Services .................................................................................................................................................... 2
2\.1 Provision of services .......................................................................................................... 2
2\.2 Term .................................................................................................................................... 2
2\.3 Supply of various items .................................................................................................... 2
2\.4 Standard of care ................................................................................................................. 2
2\.5 Standards in relation to persons performing Services .................................................. 2
2\.6 Instructions by Health Organization .............................................................................. 2
2\.7 Confirmation of non‐written instructions ...................................................................... 2
2\.8 Effectiveness of non‐written instructions ....................................................................... 2
2\.9 Applicable laws.................................................................................................................. 2
3\. Payment ................................................................................................................................................... 3
3\.1 Fees and expenses .............................................................................................................. 3
3\.2 Statements of accounts ...................................................................................................... 3
3\.3 Withholding of amounts ................................................................................................... 3
3\.4 Appropriation .................................................................................................................... 3
3\.5 Currency ............................................................................................................................. 3
3\.6 Non‐resident income tax .................................................................................................. 3
3\.7 Prohibition against committing money .......................................................................... 3
3\.8 Refunds of taxes ................................................................................................................. 4
4\. Representations and Warranties ......................................................................................................... 4
5\. Privacy, Security and Confidentiality ................................................................................................ 4
5\.1 Privacy ................................................................................................................................ 4
5\.2 Security ............................................................................................................................... 4
5\.3 Confidentiality ................................................................................................................... 4
5\.4 Public announcements ...................................................................................................... 5
5\.5 Restrictions on promotion ................................................................................................ 5
6\. Material and Intellectual Property .................................................................................................... 5
6\.1 Access to Material .............................................................................................................. 5
6\.2 Ownership and delivery of Material ............................................................................... 5
6\.3 Matters respecting intellectual property ........................................................................ 5
6\.4 Rights relating to Incorporated Material ........................................................................ 5
7\. Records and Reports ............................................................................................................................. 6
7\.1 Work reporting .................................................................................................................. 6
7\.2 Time and expense records ................................................................................................ 6
8\. Audit ........................................................................................................................................................ 6
II

9\. Indemnity and Insurance ..................................................................................................................... 6
9\.1 Indemnity ........................................................................................................................... 6
9\.2 Insurance ............................................................................................................................. 6
9\.3 Workers compensation ..................................................................................................... 6
9\.4 Personal optional protection ............................................................................................ 6
9\.5 Evidence of coverage ........................................................................................................ 7
10\. Force Majeure ......................................................................................................................................... 7
10\.1 Definitions relating to force majeure .............................................................................. 7
10\.2 Consequence of Event of Force Majeure ........................................................................ 7
10\.3 Duties of Affected Party ................................................................................................... 7
11\. Default and Termination ..................................................................................................................... 7
11\.1 Definitions relating to default and termination ............................................................ 7
11\.2 Health Organization’s options on default ...................................................................... 8
11\.3 Delay not a waiver ............................................................................................................. 8
11\.4 Health Organization’s right to terminate other than for default ................................ 8
11\.5 Payment consequences of termination ........................................................................... 8
11\.6 Discharge of liability ......................................................................................................... 8
11\.7 Notice in relation to Events of Default ........................................................................... 9
12\. Dispute Resolution ............................................................................................................................... 9
12\.1 Dispute resolution process ............................................................................................... 9
12\.2 Location of arbitration or mediation ............................................................................... 9
12\.3 Costs of mediation or arbitration .................................................................................... 9
13\. Miscellaneous ......................................................................................................................................... 9
13\.1 Delivery of notices ............................................................................................................. 9
13\.2 Change of address or fax number .................................................................................. 10
13\.3 Assignment ........................................................................................................................ 10
13\.4 Subcontracting .................................................................................................................. 10
13\.5 Waiver ................................................................................................................................ 10
13\.6 Modifications .................................................................................................................... 10
13\.7 Entire agreement ............................................................................................................... 10
13\.8 Survival of certain provisions ......................................................................................... 10
13\.9 Schedules ........................................................................................................................... 10
13\.10 Independent contractor ................................................................................................... 11
13\.11 Personnel not to be employees of Health Organization .............................................. 11
13\.12 Key Personnel ................................................................................................................... 11
13\.13 Pertinent Information ....................................................................................................... 11
13\.14 Conflict of interest ............................................................................................................ 11
13\.15 Time .................................................................................................................................... 11
13\.16 Conflicts among provisions ............................................................................................ 11
13\.17 Agreement not permit nor fetter .................................................................................... 11
13\.18 Remainder not affected by invalidity ............................................................................ 12
13\.19 Further assurances ............................................................................................................ 12
13\.20 Additional terms ............................................................................................................... 12
13\.21 Tax Verification ………………………………………………………………………….12
13\.22 Governing law .................................................................................................................. 12
14\. Interpretation ........................................................................................................................................ 12
15\. Execution and Delivery of Agreement ............................................................................................. 12
III

SCHEDULE A – SERVICES
Part 1 ‐ Term
Part 2 ‐ Services
Part 3 ‐ Related Documentation
Part 4 ‐ Key Personnel
SCHEDULE B – FEES AND EXPENSES
Part 1 ‐ Maximum Amount Payable
Part 2 ‐ Fees
Part 3 ‐ Expenses
Part 4 ‐ Statements of Account
Part 5 ‐ Payments Due
SCHEDULE C – APPROVED SUBCONTRACTOR(S)
SCHEDULE D – INSURANCE
SCHEDULE E – PRIVACY PROTECTION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE F – ADDITIONAL TERMS
SCHEDULE G – SECURITY SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE H – TAX VERIFICATION
IV

THIS AGREEMENT is dated for reference the \_\_\_day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2024\.
BETWEEN:
@LEGAL NAME AND, IF APPLICABLE, DESCRIPTION, OF CONTRACTOR (the “Contractor”) with the
following specified address and fax number:
@ADDRESS
@POSTAL CODE
@FAX NUMBER
AND:
Providence Health Care (the “Health Organization”) with the following specified address and fax
number:
@ADDRESS
@POSTAL CODE
@FAX NUMBER
The Health Organization wishes to retain the Contractor to provide the services specified in Schedule A and, in
consideration for the remuneration set out in Schedule B, the Contractor has agreed to provide those services, on the
terms and conditions set out in this Agreement.
As a result, the Health Organization and the Contractor agree as follows:
1 DEFINITIONS
General
1\.1 In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) “Business Day” means a day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, on which Provincial government
offices are open for normal business in British Columbia;
(b) “Incorporated Material” means any material in existence prior to the start of the Term or developed
independently of this Agreement, and that is incorporated or embedded in the Produced Material
by the Contractor or a Subcontractor;
(c) “Material” means the Produced Material and the Received Material;
(d) “Produced Material” means records, software and other material, whether complete or not, that, as
a result of this Agreement, are produced or provided by the Contractor or a Subcontractor and
includes the Incorporated Material;
(e) “Received Material” means records, software and other material, whether complete or not, that, as
a result of this Agreement, are received by the Contractor or a Subcontractor from the Health
Organization or any other person;
(f) “Services” means the services described in Part 2 of Schedule A;
(g) “Subcontractor” means a person described in paragraph (a) or (b) of section 13\.4; and
(h) “Term” means the term of the Agreement described in Part 1 of Schedule A subject to that term
ending earlier in accordance with this Agreement.
Meaning of “record”
1\.2 The definition of “record” in the Interpretation Act is incorporated into this Agreement and “records” will
bear a corresponding meaning.
2 SERVICES
Provision of services
2\.1 The Contractor must provide the Services in accordance with this Agreement.
1

Term
2\.2 Regardless of the date of execution or delivery of this Agreement, the Contractor must provide the Services
during the Term.
Supply of various items
2\.3 Unless the parties otherwise agree in writing, the Contractor must supply and pay for all labour, materials,
equipment, tools, facilities, approvals and licenses necessary or advisable to perform the Contractor’s
obligations under this Agreement, including the license under section 6\.4\.
Standard of care
2\.4 Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, the Contractor must perform the Services to a standard of
care, skill and diligence maintained by persons providing, on a commercial basis, services similar to the
Services.
Standards in relation to persons performing Services
2\.5 The Contractor must ensure that all persons employed or retained to perform the Services are qualified
and competent to perform them and are properly trained, instructed and supervised.
Instructions by Health Organization
2\.6 The Health Organization may from time to time give the Contractor reasonable instructions (in writing or
otherwise) as to the performance of the Services. The Contractor must comply with those instructions but,
unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, the Contractor may determine the manner in which the
instructions are carried out.
Confirmation of non‐written instructions
2\.7 If the Health Organization provides an instruction under section 2\.6 other than in writing, the Contractor
may request that the instruction be confirmed by the Health Organization in writing, which request the
Health Organization must comply with as soon as it is reasonably practicable to do so.
Effectiveness of non‐written instructions
2\.8 Requesting written confirmation of an instruction under section 2\.7 does not relieve the Contractor from
complying with the instruction at the time the instruction was given.
Applicable laws
2\.9 In the performance of the Contractor’s obligations under this Agreement, the Contractor must comply with
all applicable laws.
3 PAYMENT
Fees and expenses
3\.1 If the Contractor complies with this Agreement, then the Health Organization must pay to the Contractor
at the times and on the conditions set out in Schedule B:
(a) the fees described in that Schedule;
2

(b) the expenses, if any, described in that Schedule if they are supported, where applicable, by proper
receipts and, in the Health Organization’s opinion, are necessarily incurred by the Contractor in
providing the Services; and
(c) any applicable taxes payable by the Health Organization under law or agreement with the relevant
taxation authorities on the fees and expenses described in paragraphs (a) and (b).
The Health Organization is not obliged to pay to the Contractor more than the “Maximum Amount”
specified in Schedule B on account of fees and expenses.
Statements of accounts
3\.2 In order to obtain payment of any fees and expenses under this Agreement, the Contractor must submit to
the Health Organization a written statement of account in a form satisfactory to the Health Organization
upon completion of the Services or at other times described in Schedule B.
Withholding of amounts
3\.3 Without limiting section 9\.1, the Health Organization may withhold from any payment due to the
Contractor an amount sufficient to indemnify, in whole or in part, the Health Organization and its
employees and agents against any liens or other third‐party claims that have arisen or could arise in
connection with the provision of the Services. An amount withheld under this section must be promptly
paid by the Health Organization to the Contractor upon the basis for withholding the amount having been
fully resolved to the satisfaction of the Health Organization.
Appropriation
3\.4 The Health Organization’s obligation to pay money to the Contractor is subject to the Financial
Administration Act, which makes that obligation subject to an appropriation being available in the fiscal
year of the Health Organization during which payment becomes due.
Currency
3\.5 Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all references to money are to Canadian dollars.
Non‐resident income tax
3\.6 If the Contractor is not a resident in Canada, the Contractor acknowledges that the Health Organization
may be required by law to withhold income tax from the fees described in Schedule B and then to remit
that tax to the Receiver General of Canada on the Contractor’s behalf.
Prohibition against committing money
3\.7 Without limiting section 13\.10(a), the Contractor must not in relation to performing the Contractor’s
obligations under this Agreement commit or purport to commit the Health Organization to pay any money
except as may be expressly provided for in this Agreement.
Refunds of taxes
3\.8 The Contractor must:
(a) apply for, and use reasonable efforts to obtain, any available refund, credit, rebate or remission of
federal, provincial or other tax or duty imposed on the Contractor as a result of this Agreement that
the Health Organization has paid or reimbursed to the Contractor or agreed to pay or reimburse to
the Contractor under this Agreement; and
3

(b) immediately on receiving, or being credited with, any amount applied for under paragraph (a), remit
that amount to the Health Organization.
4 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
4\.1 As at the date this Agreement is executed and delivered by, or on behalf of, the parties, the Contractor
represents and warrants to the Health Organization as follows:
(a) except to the extent the Contractor has previously disclosed otherwise in writing to the Health
Organization,
(i) all information, statements, documents and reports furnished or submitted by the Contractor
to the Health Organization in connection with this Agreement (including as part of any
competitive process resulting in this Agreement being entered into) are in all material
respects true and correct,
(ii) the Contractor has sufficient trained staff, facilities, materials, appropriate equipment and
approved subcontractual or other agreements in place and available to enable the Contractor
to fully perform the Services and to grant any licenses under this Agreement, and
(iii) the Contractor holds all permits, licenses, approvals and statutory authorities issued by any
government or government agency that are necessary for the performance of the
Contractor’s obligations under this Agreement; and
(b) if the Contractor is not an individual,
(i) the Contractor has the power and capacity to enter into this Agreement and to observe,
perform and comply with the terms of this Agreement and all necessary corporate or other
proceedings have been taken and done to authorize the execution and delivery of this
Agreement by, or on behalf of, the Contractor, and
(ii) this Agreement has been legally and properly executed by, or on behalf of, the Contractor
and is legally binding upon and enforceable against the Contractor in accordance with its
terms except as enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or other laws
affecting the rights of creditors generally and except that equitable remedies may be granted
only in the discretion of a court of competent jurisdiction.
5 PRIVACY, SECURITY AND CONFIDENTIALITY
Privacy
5\.1 The Contractor must comply with the Privacy Protection Schedule attached as Schedule E.
Security
5\.2 The Contractor must:
(a) make reasonable security arrangements to protect the Material from unauthorized access,
collection, use, disclosure, alteration or disposal; and
(b) comply with the Security Schedule attached as Schedule G.
Confidentiality
5\.3 The Contractor must treat as confidential all information in the Material and all other information accessed
or obtained by the Contractor or a Subcontractor (whether verbally, electronically or otherwise) as a result
of this Agreement, and not permit its disclosure or use without the Health Organization’s prior written
consent except:
(a) as required to perform the Contractor’s obligations under this Agreement or to comply with
applicable laws;
4

(b) if it is information that is generally known to the public other than as result of a breach of this
Agreement; or
(c) if it is information in any Incorporated Material.
Public announcements
5\.4 Any public announcement relating to this Agreement will be arranged by the Health Organization and, if
such consultation is reasonably practicable, after consultation with the Contractor.
Restrictions on promotion
5\.5 The Contractor must not, without the prior written approval of the Health Organization, refer for
promotional purposes to the Health Organization being a customer of the Contractor or the Health
Organization having entered into this Agreement.
6 MATERIAL AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Access to Material
6\.1 If the Contractor receives a request for access to any of the Material from a person other than the Health
Organization, and this Agreement does not require or authorize the Contractor to provide that access, the
Contractor must promptly advise the person to make the request to the Health Organization.
Ownership and delivery of Material
6\.2 The Health Organization exclusively owns all property rights in the Material which are not intellectual
property rights. The Contractor must deliver any Material to the Health Organization immediately upon
the Health Organization’s request.
Matters respecting intellectual property
6\.3 The Health Organization exclusively owns all intellectual property rights, including copyright, in:
(a) Received Material that the Contractor receives from the Health Organization; and
(b) Produced Material, other than any Incorporated Material.
Upon the Health Organization’s request, the Contractor must deliver to the Health Organization
documents satisfactory to the Health Organization that irrevocably waive in the Health Organization’s
favour any moral rights which the Contractor (or employees of the Contractor) or a Subcontractor (or
employees of a Subcontractor) may have in the Produced Material and that confirm the vesting in the
Health Organization of the copyright in the Produced Material, other than any Incorporated Material.
Rights in relation to Incorporated Material
6\.4 Upon any Incorporated Material being embedded or incorporated in the Produced Material and to the
extent that it remains so embedded or incorporated, the Contractor grants to the Health Organization:
(a) a non‐exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, royalty‐free, worldwide license to exercise, in respect of
that Incorporated Material, the rights set out in the Copyright Act (Canada), including the right to
use, reproduce, modify, publish and distribute that Incorporated Material; and
(b) the right to sublicense or assign to third‐parties any or all of the rights granted to the Health
Organization under section 6\.4(a).
5

7 RECORDS AND REPORTS
Work reporting
7\.1 Upon the Health Organization’s request, the Contractor must fully inform the Health Organization of all
work done by the Contractor or a Subcontractor in connection with providing the Services.
Time and expense records
7\.2 If Schedule B provides for the Contractor to be paid fees at a daily or hourly rate or for the Contractor to be
paid or reimbursed for expenses, the Contractor must maintain time records and books of account, invoices,
receipts and vouchers of expenses in support of those payments, in form and content satisfactory to the
Health Organization. Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, the Contractor must retain such
documents for a period of not less than seven years after this Agreement ends.
8 AUDIT
8\.1 In addition to any other rights of inspection the Health Organization may have under statute or otherwise,
the Health Organization may at any reasonable time and on reasonable notice to the Contractor, enter on
the Contractor’s premises to inspect and, at the Health Organization’s discretion, copy any of the Material
and the Contractor must permit, and provide reasonable assistance to, the exercise by the Health
Organization of the Health Organization’s rights under this section.
9 INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE
Indemnity
9\.1 The Contractor must indemnify and save harmless the Health Organization and the Health Organization’s
employees and agents from any loss, claim (including any claim of infringement of third‐party intellectual
property rights), damage award, action, cause of action, cost or expense that the Health Organization or
any of the Health Organization’s employees or agents may sustain, incur, suffer or be put to at any time,
either before or after this Agreement ends, (each a “Loss”) to the extent the Loss is directly or indirectly
caused or contributed to by:
(a) any act or omission by the Contractor or by any of the Contractor’s agents, employees, officers,
directors or Subcontractors in connection with this Agreement; or
(b) any representation or warranty of the Contractor being or becoming untrue or incorrect.
Insurance
9\.2 The Contractor must comply with the Insurance Schedule attached as Schedule D.
Workers compensation
9\.3 Without limiting the generality of section 2\.9, the Contractor must comply with, and must ensure that any
Subcontractors comply with, all applicable occupational health and safety laws in relation to the
performance of the Contractor’s obligations under this Agreement, including the Workers Compensation Act
in British Columbia or similar laws in other jurisdictions.
Personal optional protection
9\.4 The Contractor must apply for and maintain personal optional protection insurance (consisting of income
replacement and medical care coverage) during the Term at the Contractor’s expense if:
6

(a) the Contractor is an individual or a partnership of individuals and does not have the benefit of
mandatory workers compensation coverage under the Workers Compensation Act or similar laws in
other jurisdictions; and
(b) such personal optional protection insurance is available for the Contractor from WorkSafeBC or
other sources.
Evidence of coverage
9\.5 Within 10 Business Days of being requested to do so by the Health Organization, the Contractor must provide
the Health Organization with evidence of the Contractor’s compliance with sections 9\.3 and 9\.4\.
10 FORCE MAJEURE
Definitions relating to force majeure
10\.1 In this section and sections 10\.2 and 10\.3:
(a) “Event of Force Majeure” means one of the following events:
(i) a natural disaster, fire, flood, storm, epidemic or power failure,
(ii) a war (declared and undeclared), insurrection or act of terrorism or piracy,
(iii) a strike (including illegal work stoppage or slowdown) or lockout, or
(iv) a freight embargo
if the event prevents a party from performing the party’s obligations in accordance with this
Agreement and is beyond the reasonable control of that party; and
(b) “Affected Party” means a party prevented from performing the party’s obligations in accordance
with this Agreement by an Event of Force Majeure.
Consequence of Event of Force Majeure
10\.2 An Affected Party is not liable to the other party for any failure or delay in the performance of the Affected
Party’s obligations under this Agreement resulting from an Event of Force Majeure and any time periods
for the performance of such obligations are automatically extended for the duration of the Event of Force
Majeure provided that the Affected Party complies with the requirements of section 10\.3\.
Duties of Affected Party
10\.3 An Affected Party must promptly notify the other party in writing upon the occurrence of the Event of
Force Majeure and make all reasonable efforts to prevent, control or limit the effect of the Event of Force
Majeure so as to resume compliance with the Affected Party’s obligations under this Agreement as soon as
possible.
11 DEFAULT AND TERMINATION
Definitions relating to default and termination
11\.1 In this section and sections 11\.2 to 11\.4:
(a) “Event of Default” means any of the following:
(i) an Insolvency Event,
(ii) the Contractor fails to perform any of the Contractor’s obligations under this Agreement,
or
(iii) any representation or warranty made by the Contractor in this Agreement is untrue or
incorrect; and
7

(b) “Insolvency Event” means any of the following:
(i) an order is made, a resolution is passed or a petition is filed, for the Contractorʹs liquidation
or winding up,
(ii) the Contractor commits an act of bankruptcy, makes an assignment for the benefit of the
Contractor’s creditors or otherwise acknowledges the Contractor’s insolvency,
(iii) a bankruptcy petition is filed or presented against the Contractor or a proposal under the
Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act (Canada) is made by the Contractor,
(iv) a compromise or arrangement is proposed in respect of the Contractor under the
Companiesʹ Creditors Arrangement Act (Canada),
(v) a receiver or receiver‐manager is appointed for any of the Contractor’s property, or
(vi) the Contractor ceases, in the Health Organization’s reasonable opinion, to carry on
business as a going concern.
Health Organization’s options on default
11\.2 On the happening of an Event of Default, or at any time thereafter, the Health Organization may, at its
option, elect to do any one or more of the following:
(a) by written notice to the Contractor, require that the Event of Default be remedied within a time
period specified in the notice;
(b) pursue any remedy or take any other action available to it at law or in equity; or
(c) by written notice to the Contractor, terminate this Agreement with immediate effect or on a
future date specified in the notice, subject to the expiration of any time period specified under
section 11\.2(a).
Delay not a waiver
11\.3 No failure or delay on the part of the Health Organization to exercise its rights in relation to an Event of
Default will constitute a waiver by the Health Organization of such rights.
Health Organization’s right to terminate other than for default
11\.4 In addition to the Health Organization’s right to terminate this Agreement under section 11\.2(c) on the
happening of an Event of Default, the Health Organization may terminate this Agreement for any reason
by giving at least 10 days’ written notice of termination to the Contractor.
Payment consequences of termination
11\.5 Unless Schedule B otherwise provides, if the Health Organization terminates this Agreement under section
11\.4:
(a) the Health Organization must, within 30 days of such termination, pay to the Contractor any
unpaid portion of the fees and expenses described in Schedule B which corresponds with the
portion of the Services that was completed to the Health Organization’s satisfaction before
termination of this Agreement; and
(b) the Contractor must, within 30 days of such termination, repay to the Health Organization any paid
portion of the fees and expenses described in Schedule B which corresponds with the portion of the
Services that the Health Organization has notified the Contractor in writing was not completed to
the Health Organization’s satisfaction before termination of this Agreement.
Discharge of liability
11\.6 The payment by the Health Organization of the amount described in section 11\.5(a) discharges the Health
Organization from all liability to make payments to the Contractor under this Agreement.
8

Notice in relation to Events of Default
11\.7 If the Contractor becomes aware that an Event of Default has occurred or anticipates that an Event of
Default is likely to occur, the Contractor must promptly notify the Health Organization of the particulars
of the Event of Default or anticipated Event of Default. A notice under this section as to the occurrence of
an Event of Default must also specify the steps the Contractor proposes to take to address, or prevent
recurrence of, the Event of Default. A notice under this section as to an anticipated Event of Default must
specify the steps the Contractor proposes to take to prevent the occurrence of the anticipated Event of
Default.
12 DISPUTE RESOLUTION
Dispute resolution process
12\.1 In the event of any dispute between the parties arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, the
following dispute resolution process will apply unless the parties otherwise agree in writing:
(a) the parties must initially attempt to resolve the dispute through collaborative negotiation;
(b) if the dispute is not resolved through collaborative negotiation within 15 Business Days of the
dispute arising, the parties must then attempt to resolve the dispute through mediation under the
rules of the Mediate BC Society; and
(c) if the dispute is not resolved through mediation within 30 Business Days of the commencement of
mediation, the dispute must be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration under the Arbitration
Act.
Location of arbitration or mediation
12\.2 Unless the parties otherwise agree in writing, an arbitration or mediation under section 12\.1 will be held in
Victoria, British Columbia.
Costs of mediation or arbitration
12\.3 Unless the parties otherwise agree in writing or, in the case of an arbitration, the arbitrator otherwise orders,
the parties must share equally the costs of a mediation or arbitration under section 12\.1 other than those
costs relating to the production of expert evidence or representation by counsel.
13 MISCELLANEOUS
Delivery of notices
13\.1 Any notice contemplated by this Agreement, to be effective, must be in writing and delivered as follows:
(a) by fax to the addresseeʹs fax number specified on the first page of this Agreement, in which case it
will be deemed to be received on the day of transmittal unless transmitted after the normal business
hours of the addressee or on a day that is not a Business Day, in which cases it will be deemed to
be received on the next following Business Day;
(b) by hand to the addresseeʹs address specified on the first page of this Agreement, in which case it
will be deemed to be received on the day of its delivery; or
(c) by prepaid post to the addresseeʹs address specified on the first page of this Agreement, in which
case if mailed during any period when normal postal services prevail, it will be deemed to be received
on the fifth Business Day after its mailing.
9

Change of address or fax number
13\.2 Either party may from time to time give notice to the other party of a substitute address or fax number,
which from the date such notice is given will supersede for purposes of section 13\.1 any previous address
or fax number specified for the party giving the notice.
Assignment
13\.3 The Contractor must not assign any of the Contractor’s rights or obligations under this Agreement without
the Health Organization’s prior written consent. Upon providing written notice to the Contractor, the
Health Organization may assign to any person any of the Health Organization’s rights under this
Agreement and may assign to any “government corporation”, as defined in the Financial Administration
Act, any of the Health Organization’s obligations under this Agreement.
Subcontracting
13\.4 The Contractor must not subcontract any of the Contractor’s obligations under this Agreement to any
person without the Health Organization’s prior written consent, excepting persons listed in the attached
Schedule C. No subcontract, whether consented to or not, relieves the Contractor from any obligations
under this Agreement. The Contractor must ensure that:
(a) any person retained by the Contractor to perform obligations under this Agreement; and
(b) any person retained by a person described in paragraph (a) to perform those obligations
fully complies with this Agreement in performing the subcontracted obligations.
Waiver
13\.5 A waiver of any term or breach of this Agreement is effective only if it is in writing and signed by, or on
behalf of, the waiving party and is not a waiver of any other term or breach.
Modifications
13\.6 No modification of this Agreement is effective unless it is in writing and signed by, or on behalf of, the
parties.
Entire agreement
13\.7 This Agreement (including any modification of it) constitutes the entire agreement between the parties as
to performance of the Services.
Survival of certain provisions
13\.8 Sections 2\.9, 3\.1 to 3\.4, 3\.7, 3\.8, 5\.1 to 5\.5, 6\.1 to 6\.4, 7\.1, 7\.2, 8\.1, 9\.1, 9\.2, 9\.5, 10\.1 to 10\.3, 11\.2, 11\.3, 11\.5, 11\.6,
12\.1 to 12\.3, 13\.1, 13\.2, 13\.8, and 13\.10, any accrued but unpaid payment obligations, and any other sections
of this Agreement (including schedules) which, by their terms or nature, are intended to survive the
completion of the Services or termination of this Agreement, will continue in force indefinitely subject to
any applicable limitation period prescribed by law, even after this Agreement ends.
Schedules
13\.9 The schedules to this Agreement (including any appendices or other documents attached to, or
incorporated by reference into, those schedules) are part of this Agreement.
10

Independent contractor
13\.10 In relation to the performance of the Contractor’s obligations under this Agreement, the Contractor is an
independent contractor and not:
(a) an employee or partner of the Health Organization; or
(b) an agent of the Health Organization except as may be expressly provided for in this Agreement.
The Contractor must not act or purport to act contrary to this section.
Personnel not to be employees of Health Organization
13\.11 The Contractor must not do anything that would result in personnel hired or used by the Contractor or a
Subcontractor in relation to providing the Services being considered employees of the Health Organization.
Key Personnel
13\.12 If one or more individuals are specified as “Key Personnel” of the Contractor in Part 4 of Schedule A, the
Contractor must cause those individuals to perform the Services on the Contractor’s behalf, unless the
Health Organization otherwise approves in writing, which approval must not be unreasonably withheld.
Pertinent information
13\.13 The Health Organization must make available to the Contractor all information in the Health
Organization’s possession which the Health Organization considers pertinent to the performance of the
Services.
Conflict of interest
13\.14 The Contractor must not provide any services to any person in circumstances which, in the Health
Organization’s reasonable opinion, could give rise to a conflict of interest between the Contractor’s duties
to that person and the Contractor’s duties to the Health Organization under this Agreement.
Time
13\.15 Time is of the essence in this Agreement and, without limitation, will remain of the essence after any
modification or extension of this Agreement, whether or not expressly restated in the document effecting
the modification or extension.
Conflicts among provisions
13\.16 Conflicts among provisions of this Agreement will be resolved as follows:
(a) a provision in the body of this Agreement will prevail over any conflicting provision in, attached
to or incorporated by reference into a schedule, unless that conflicting provision expressly states
otherwise; and
(b) a provision in a schedule will prevail over any conflicting provision in a document attached to or
incorporated by reference into a schedule, unless the schedule expressly states otherwise.
Agreement not permit nor fetter
13\.17 This Agreement does not operate as a permit, license, approval or other statutory authority which the
Contractor may be required to obtain from the Health Organization or any of its agencies in order to
provide the Services. Nothing in this Agreement is to be construed as interfering with, or fettering in any
11

manner, the exercise by the Health Organization or its agencies of any statutory, prerogative, executive or
legislative power or duty.
Remainder not affected by invalidity
13\.18 If any provision of this Agreement or the application of it to any person or circumstance is invalid or
unenforceable to any extent, the remainder of this Agreement and the application of such provision to any
other person or circumstance will not be affected or impaired and will be valid and enforceable to the extent
permitted by law.
Further assurances
13\.19 Each party must perform the acts, execute and deliver the writings, and give the assurances as may be
reasonably necessary to give full effect to this Agreement.
Additional terms
13\.20 Any additional terms set out in the attached Schedule F apply to this Agreement.
Tax Verification
13\.21 Any terms set out in the attached Schedule H apply to this Agreement.
Governing law
13\.22 This Agreement is governed by, and is to be interpreted and construed in accordance with, the laws
applicable in British Columbia.
14 INTERPRETATION
14\.1 In this Agreement:
(a) “includes” and “including” are not intended to be limiting;
(b) unless the context otherwise requires, references to sections by number are to sections of this
Agreement;
(c) the Contractor and the Health Organization are referred to as “the parties” and each of them as a
“party”;
(d) “attached” means attached to this Agreement when used in relation to a schedule;
(e) unless otherwise specified, a reference to a statute by name means the statute of British Columbia
by that name, as amended or replaced from time to time;
(f) the headings have been inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to describe,
enlarge or restrict the scope or meaning of this Agreement or any provision of it;
(g) “person” includes an individual, partnership, corporation or legal entity of any nature; and
(h) unless the context otherwise requires, words expressed in the singular include the plural and vice
versa.
15 EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF AGREEMENT
15\.1 This Agreement may be entered into by a separate copy of this Agreement being executed by, or on behalf
of, each party and that executed copy being delivered to the other party by a method provided for in section
13\.1 or any other method agreed to by the parties.
The parties have executed this Agreement as follows:
12

SIGNED on the \_\_\_\_\_ day of SIGNED on the \_\_\_\_\_ day of
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 20\_\_ by the Contractor \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 20\_\_ on behalf of the
(or, if not an individual, on its behalf by its Health Organization by its duly authorized
authorized signatory or signatories): representative:
Signature(s) Signature
Print Name(s) Print Name
Print Title(s) Print Title
13

Schedule A – Services
PART 1\. TERM:
1\. Subject to section 2 of this Part 1, The term of this Agreement commences on \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ and ends
on \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
PART 2\. SERVICES:
Project Number: B116‐00
Project Name: RCH Redevelopment Project
Scope of Services :
PART 3\. RELATED DOCUMENTATION:
1\. The following are Appendices to this Schedule A:
Appendix 1 – Request for Proposal excerpt ATTACHED
Appendix 2 – Proposal excerpt ATTACHED
Appendix 3 – \[specify] ATTACHED
PART 4\. KEY PERSONNEL:
\[If no Key Personnel state “not applicable” but if Key Personnel provision is desired as referenced in section 13\.12,
include the following section 1\.]
1\. The Key Personnel of the Contractor are as follows:
(a)
(b)
(c)
14

Schedule B – Fees and Expenses
1\. MAXIMUM AMOUNT PAYABLE:
Maximum Amount: Despite sections 2 and 3 of this Schedule, $\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is the maximum amount which the
Health Organization is obliged to pay to the Contractor for fees and expenses under this Agreement (exclusive of
any applicable taxes described in section 3\.1(c) of this Agreement).
2\. FEES:
Flat Rate
Fees: $\_\_ for performing the Services during the Term.
3\. EXPENSES:
Expenses: None.
excluding goods and services tax (“GST”) or other applicable tax paid or payable by the Contractor on
expenses described in above to the extent that the Contractor is entitled to claim credits (including GST input
tax credits), rebates, refunds or remissions of the tax from the relevant taxation authorities.
4\. STATEMENTS OF ACCOUNT:
Statements of Account: In order to obtain payment of any fees and expenses under this Agreement, the
Contractor must deliver to the Health Organization at the end of the Term or, if the Contractor completes the
Services before that time, on the completion of the Services, a written statement of account in a form satisfactory
to the Health Organization containing:
(a) the Contractor’s legal name and address;
(b) the date of the statement;
(c) the Contractor’s calculation of all fees claimed under this Agreement, including a declaration that the
Services for which the Contractor claims fees have been completed;
(d) a chronological listing, in reasonable detail, of any expenses claimed by the Contractor with receipts
attached, if applicable, and, if the Contractor is claiming reimbursement of any GST or other applicable
taxes paid or payable by the Contractor in relation to those expenses, a description of any credits,
rebates, refunds or remissions the Contractor is entitled to from the relevant taxation authorities in
relation to those taxes;
(e) the Contractor’s calculation of all applicable taxes payable by the Health Organization in relation to the
Services;
(f) a description of this Agreement to which the statement relates;
(g) a statement number for identification; and
(h) any other billing information reasonably requested by the Health Organization.
5\. PAYMENTS DUE:
Payments Due: Within 30 days of the Health Organization’s receipt of the Contractor’s written statement of account
delivered in accordance with this Schedule, the Health Organization must pay the Contractor the fees and expenses
(plus all applicable taxes) claimed in the statement if they are in accordance with this Schedule. Statements of
15

account or contract invoices offering an early payment discount may be paid by the Health Organization as
required to obtain the discount.
16

Schedule C – Approved Subcontractor(s)
Not applicable.
17

Schedule D – Insurance
1\. The Contractor must, without limiting the Contractor’s obligations or liabilities and at the Contractor’s own
expense, purchase and maintain throughout the Term the following insurances with insurers licensed in
Canada in forms and amounts acceptable to the Health Organization:
(a) Commercial General Liability in an amount not less than $2,000,000\.00 inclusive per occurrence against
bodily injury, personal injury and property damage and including liability assumed under this
Agreement and this insurance must
(i) include the Health Organization as an additional insured,
(ii) be endorsed to provide the Health Organization with 30 days advance written notice of
cancellation or material change, and
(iii) include a cross liability clause.
(b) Automobile Liability on all vehicles owned, operated or licensed in the name of the Contractor, in an
amount not less than $ 2,000,000\.00\.
(c) Professional Liability in an amount not less than $250,000 insuring the Contractor’s liability resulting
from errors and omissions in the performance of professional services under this agreement, and this
insurance must be endorsed to provide the Health Organization 30 days in advance written notice of
cancellation.
2\. All insurance described in section 1 of this Schedule must:
(a) be primary; and
(b) not require the sharing of any loss by any insurer of the Health Organization.
3\. The Contractor must provide the Health Organization with evidence of all required insurance as follows:
(a) within 10 Business Days of commencement of the Services, the Contractor must provide to the Health
Organization evidence of all required insurance in the form of a completed Health Organization of
British Columbia Certificate of Insurance;
(b) if any required insurance policy expires before the end of the Term, the Contractor must provide to
the Health Organization within 10 Business Days of the policy’s expiration, evidence of a new or
renewal policy meeting the requirements of the expired insurance in the form of a completed Health
Organization of British Columbia Certificate of Insurance; and
(c) despite paragraph (a) or (b) above, if requested by the Health Organization at any time, the Contractor
must provide to the Health Organization certified copies of the required insurance policies.
4\. The Contractor must obtain, maintain and pay for any additional insurance which the Contractor is required
by law to carry, or which the Contractor considers necessary to cover risks not otherwise covered by
insurance specified in this Schedule in the Contractor’s sole discretion.
18

Schedule E – Privacy Protection Schedule
Definitions
1\. In this Schedule,
(a) “access” means disclosure by the provision of access;
(b) “Act” means the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act;
(c) “contact information” means information to enable an individual at a place of business to be
contacted and includes the name, position name or title, business telephone number, business
address, business email or business fax number of the individual;
(d) “personal information” means recorded information about an identifiable individual, other than
contact information, collected or created by the Contractor as a result of the Agreement or any
previous agreement between the Health Organization and the Contractor dealing with the same
subject matter as the Agreement but excluding any such information that, if this Schedule did not
apply to it, would not be under the “control of a public body” within the meaning of the Act; and
(e) “privacy course” means the Government BC’s online privacy and information sharing training
course.
https://www2\.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/governments/services‐for‐government/information‐
management‐technology/privacy/training\#contractors‐service‐providers
Purpose
2\. The purpose of this Schedule is to:
(a) enable the Health Organization to comply with the Health Organizationʹs statutory obligations
under the Act with respect to personal information; and
(b) ensure that, as a service provider, the Contractor is aware of and complies with the Contractorʹs
statutory obligations under the Act with respect to personal information.
Collection of personal information
3\. Unless the Agreement otherwise specifies or the Health Organization otherwise directs in writing, the
Contractor may only collect or create personal information that is necessary for the performance of the
Contractor’s obligations, or the exercise of the Contractor’s rights, under the Agreement.
4\. Unless the Agreement otherwise specifies or the Health Organization otherwise directs in writing, the
Contractor must collect personal information directly from the individual the information is about.
5\. Unless the Agreement otherwise specifies or the Health Organization otherwise directs in writing, the
Contractor must tell an individual from whom the Contractor collects personal information:
(a) the purpose for collecting it;
(b) the legal authority for collecting it; and
(c) the title, business address and business telephone number of the person designated by the Health
Organization to answer questions about the Contractor’s collection of personal information.
Privacy Training
19

6\. The Contractor must ensure that each person who will provide services under the Agreement that involve
the collection or creation of personal information will complete, at the Contractor’s expense, the privacy
course prior to that person providing those services.
7\. The requirement in section 6 will only apply to persons who have not previously completed the privacy
course.
Accuracy of personal information
8\. The Contractor must make every reasonable effort to ensure the accuracy and completeness of any personal
information to be used by the Contractor or the Health Organization to make a decision that directly affects
the individual the information is about.
Requests for access to personal information
9\. If the Contractor receives a request for access to personal information from a person other than the Health
Organization, the Contractor must promptly advise the person to make the request to the Health
Organization unless the Agreement expressly requires the Contractor to provide such access and, if the
Health Organization has advised the Contractor of the name or title and contact information of an official
of the Health Organization to whom such requests are to be made, the Contractor must also promptly
provide that official’s name or title and contact information to the person making the request.
Correction of personal information
10\. Within 5 Business Days of receiving a written direction from the Health Organization to correct or annotate
any personal information, the Contractor must annotate or correct the information in accordance with the
direction.
11\. When issuing a written direction under section 10, the Health Organization must advise the Contractor of
the date the correction request to which the direction relates was received by the Health Organization in
order that the Contractor may comply with section 12\.
12\. Within 5 Business Days of correcting or annotating any personal information under section 10, the
Contractor must provide the corrected or annotated information to any party to whom, within one year
prior to the date the correction request was made to the Health Organization, the Contractor disclosed the
information being corrected or annotated.
13\. If the Contractor receives a request for correction of personal information from a person other than the
Health Organization, the Contractor must promptly advise the person to make the request to the Health
Organization and, if the Health Organization has advised the Contractor of the name or title and contact
information of an official of the Health Organization to whom such requests are to be made, the Contractor
must also promptly provide that official’s name or title and contact information to the person making the
request.
Protection of personal information
14\. The Contractor must protect personal information by making reasonable security arrangements against
such risks as unauthorized access, collection, use, disclosure or disposal, including any expressly set out in
the Agreement.
Storage and access to personal information
20

15\. Unless the Health Organization otherwise directs in writing, the Contractor must not store personal
information outside Canada or permit access to personal information from outside Canada.
Retention of personal information
16\. Unless the Agreement otherwise specifies, the Contractor must retain personal information until directed
by the Health Organization in writing to dispose of it or deliver it as specified in the direction.
Use of personal information
17\. Unless the Health Organization otherwise directs in writing, the Contractor may only use personal
information if that use is for the performance of the Contractor’s obligations, or the exercise of the
Contractor’s rights, under the Agreement.
Disclosure of personal information
18\. Unless the Health Organization otherwise directs in writing, the Contractor may only disclose personal
information inside Canada to any person other than the Health Organization if the disclosure is for the
performance of the Contractor’s obligations, or the exercise of the Contractor’s rights, under the
Agreement.
19\. Unless the Agreement otherwise specifies or the Health Organization otherwise directs in writing, the
Contractor must not disclose personal information outside Canada.
Notice of foreign demands for disclosure
20\. In addition to any obligation the Contractor may have to provide the notification contemplated by section
30\.2 of the Act, if in relation to personal information in the custody or under the control of the Contractor,
the Contractor:
(a) receives a foreign demand for disclosure;
(b) receives a request to disclose, produce or provide access that the Contractor knows or has reason
to suspect is for the purpose of responding to a foreign demand for disclosure; or
(c) has reason to suspect that an unauthorized disclosure of personal information has occurred in
response to a foreign demand for disclosure
the Contractor must immediately notify the Health Organization and, in so doing, provide the information
described in section 30\.2(3\) of the Act. In this section, the phrases “foreign demand for disclosure” and
“unauthorized disclosure of personal information” will bear the same meanings as in section 30\.2 of the
Act.
Notice of unauthorized disclosure
21\. In addition to any obligation the Contractor may have to provide the notification contemplated by section
30\.5 of the Act, if the Contractor knows that there has been an unauthorized disclosure of personal
information in the custody or under the control of the Contractor, the Contractor must immediately notify
the Health Organization. In this section, the phrase “unauthorized disclosure of personal information” will
bear the same meaning as in section 30\.5 of the Act.
Inspection of personal information
21

22\. In addition to any other rights of inspection the Health Organization may have under the Agreement or
under statute, the Health Organization may, at any reasonable time and on reasonable notice to the
Contractor, enter on the Contractor’s premises to inspect any personal information in the possession of the
Contractor or any of the Contractor’s information management policies or practices relevant to the
Contractorʹs management of personal information or the Contractorʹs compliance with this Schedule and
the Contractor must permit, and provide reasonable assistance to, any such inspection.
Compliance with the Act and directions
23\. The Contractor must in relation to personal information comply with:
(a) the requirements of the Act applicable to the Contractor as a service provider, including any
applicable order of the commissioner under the Act; and
(b) any direction given by the Health Organization under this Schedule.
24\. The Contractor acknowledges that it is familiar with the requirements of the Act governing personal
information that are applicable to it as a service provider.
Notice of non‐compliance
25\. If for any reason the Contractor does not comply, or anticipates that it will be unable to comply, with a
provision in this Schedule in any respect, the Contractor must promptly notify the Health Organization of
the particulars of the non‐compliance or anticipated non‐compliance and what steps it proposes to take to
address, or prevent recurrence of, the non‐compliance or anticipated non‐compliance.
Termination of Agreement
26\. In addition to any other rights of termination which the Health Organization may have under the
Agreement or otherwise at law, the Health Organization may, subject to any provisions in the Agreement
establishing mandatory cure periods for defaults by the Contractor, terminate the Agreement by giving
written notice of such termination to the Contractor, upon any failure of the Contractor to comply with this
Schedule in a material respect.
Interpretation
27\. In this Schedule, references to sections by number are to sections of this Schedule unless otherwise specified
in this Schedule.
28\. Any reference to the “Contractor” in this Schedule includes any subcontractor or agent retained by the
Contractor to perform obligations under the Agreement and the Contractor must ensure that any such
subcontractors and agents comply with this Schedule.
29\. The obligations of the Contractor in this Schedule will survive the termination of the Agreement.
30\. If a provision of the Agreement (including any direction given by the Health Organization under this
Schedule) conflicts with a requirement of the Act or an applicable order of the commissioner under the Act,
the conflicting provision of the Agreement (or direction) will be inoperative to the extent of the conflict.
31\. The Contractor must comply with the provisions of this Schedule despite any conflicting provision of this
Agreement or, subject to section 32, the law of any jurisdiction outside Canada.
22

32\. Nothing in this Schedule requires the Contractor to contravene the law of any jurisdiction outside Canada
unless such contravention is required to comply with the Act.
23

Schedule F – Additional Terms
Policies, standards and terms and conditions posted at the link below:
https://www.fraserhealth.ca/about‐us/business‐opportunities
24

Schedule G – Security Schedule
Definitions
1\. In this Schedule:
(a) “Device” means any device to manage, operate or provide the Services or to connect to any Systems
or any Health Organization system or network, or that is capable of storing any Protected Information,
and includes any workstation or handheld device the Contractor authorizes Personnel to use in relation
to this Agreement;
(b) “Facilities” means the physical locations (excluding those of the Health Organization) the Contractor
uses to provide the Services, or to house Systems or records containing Protected Information;
(c) “Least Privilege” means the principle requiring that each subject in a system be granted the most
restrictive set of privileges (or lowest clearance) needed for the performance of authorized tasks so as
to limit the damage that can result from accident, error or unauthorized use;
(d) “Need‐to‐Know” means the principle where access is restricted to authorized individuals whose duties
require such access and not merely because of status, rank or office;
(e) “Personnel” means all individuals hired or used by the Contractor and Subcontractors to perform the
Contractor’s obligations under this Agreement, including unpaid volunteers and the Contractor or a
Subcontractor if an individual;
(f) “Policies” means the intentions and directions of an organization or part of it, as expressed in record
form by its top management (including, for example, policies, directions, standards, practices,
procedures and guidelines);
(g) “Protected Information” means any and all:
(i) ”personal information” as defined in the Privacy Protection Schedule if attached;
(ii) information and records of information the Contractor is required to treat as confidential
under this Agreement; and
(iii) records, the integrity or availability of which are to be preserved by the Contractor under this
Agreement, which in the case of records not falling within (i) or (ii), are marked or instructed
by the Health Organization to be so preserved or otherwise treated as “Protected Information”
under this Agreement;
(h) “Security Event Logs” means any logs (also known as audit records) of events, notifications or alerts
that any component of any Device or other device (not limited to security device), or any Systems or
other system or software is technically capable of producing in relation to its status, functions and
activities that may be used for such purposes as security investigations, auditing, monitoring and
determining security incidents (examples of components capable of producing such logs include
firewalls, intrusion prevention systems, routers, switches, content filtering, network traffic flow logs,
networks, authentication services, directory services, dynamic host configuration protocols, dynamic
naming services, hardware platforms, virtualization platforms, servers, operating systems, web
servers, databases, applications, application firewalls);
(i) “Systems” means any systems, subsystems, equipment, infrastructure, networks, management
networks, servers, hardware and software the Contractor uses in relation to this Agreement, including
for managing, operating or providing the Services, but excluding any the Health Organization owns
or makes available to the Contractor for the Contractor to use in relation to this Agreement;
(j) “Tenancy” means those components of the Systems that:
25

(i) directly access and store Protected Information,
(ii) relate to Protected Information or the Health Organization’s tenancy activities, or
(iii) are customer facing and managed by the Health Organization in its use of the Services; and
(k) “Tenancy Security Event Logs” means Security Event Logs that relate to Tenancy, including:
(i) log‐on/log‐off information about Health Organization user activities, and
(ii) application logs, web server log, file server logs, database logs of applications, web servers,
file servers or database servers or any other logs that directly store, access or contain Protected
Information.
Additional obligations
2\. The Contractor must comply with Appendix G1 if attached.
PERSONNEL
Confidentiality agreements
3\. The Contractor must not permit any person the Contractor hires or uses to access or obtain any Protected
Information unless that person is contractually bound to the Contractor in writing to keep Protected
Information confidential on terms no less protective than the terms applicable to the Contractor under this
Agreement.
Personnel security screening
4\. The Contractor may only permit individual Personnel to have access to any Protected Information or other
asset of the Health Organization (including to any system, network or device the Health Organization makes
available to the Contractor) in relation to this Agreement, if, after:
(a) verifying their identity and relevant education, professional qualifications and employment history;
(b) completing a criminal record check that is updated at least every five years;
(c) requiring Personnel to proactively disclose criminal offences to the Contractor unless prohibited by
applicable law;
(d) performing any additional screening this Agreement or applicable law may require; and
(e) performing any additional background checks the Contractor considers appropriate,
the Contractor is satisfied that the individual does not constitute an unreasonable security risk.
5\. If any criminal record check or proactive disclosure reveals a prior criminal offence or pending criminal
matter, the Contractor must make a reasonable determination of whether the applicable person constitutes
an unreasonable security risk, taking into consideration the duties of the individual and the type and
sensitivity of information to which the individual may be exposed.
26

6\. If the Contractor is an individual, the Health Organization may subject the Contractor to the screening
requirements in this Schedule.
Personnel information security training
7\. Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, the Contractor must ensure all Personnel complete any
relevant information security training, at the Contractor’s expense, before they provide any Services, or
receive or are given access to any Protected Information or any system, device or secure facility of the Health
Organization, and thereafter at least annually.
Security contact
8\. If not set out elsewhere in this Agreement, the Contractor (but not a Subcontractor) must provide in writing
to the Health Organization the contact information for the individual who will coordinate compliance by the
Contractor and all Subcontractors and act as a direct contact for the Health Organization on matters relating
to this Schedule.
Supply chain
9\. The Contractor must ensure that the security requirements of those in its upstream and downstream supply
chain are documented, followed, reviewed, and updated on an ongoing basis as applicable to this
Agreement.
GENERAL POLICIES AND PRACTICES
Information security policy
10\. The Contractor must have an information security Policy that is:
(a) based on recognized industry standards; and
(b) reviewed and updated at least every three years.
Compliance and Standard for Security Controls
11\. Unless this Agreement otherwise specifies, the Contractor must apply controls and security management
practices to manage or operate Protected Information and Systems, Devices, and Facilities that are
compliant with or equivalent to the following Health Organization’s Policies accessible at
https://www2\.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/governments/services‐for‐government/policies‐procedures:
(a) “Information Security Policy”;
(b) government wide IM/IT Standards; and
(c) sector or ministry specific IM/IT Standards, if any applicable to the Health Organization ministry,
agency or other representative receiving the Services.
Contractor security risk assessments
12\. The Contractor must undertake a security threat and risk assessment against an industry security standard
before placing any new or materially changed Systems or services into production.
Change control and management
13\. The Contractor must:
27

(a) implement and maintain change control processes for Facilities, Systems and Devices in line with
applicable security best practices to reduce security‐related risks with respect to implemented
significant changes; and
(b) ensure that adequate testing of any change is completed before the change is put into production.
Backups and restores
14\. The Contractor must ensure that:
(a) it has a backup Policy that is followed and is reviewed, updated and tested at least annually;
(b) backups are taken and tested in accordance with the Contractor’s backup Policy, but in any event at
least annually; and
(c) frequency and completeness of backups is based on reasonable industry practice.
Business continuity plan and disaster recovery plan
15\. The Contractor must ensure that it has a documented business continuity plan and a disaster recovery plan
that is reviewed at least annually.
16\. The Contractor must ensure that Facilities and Systems are protected from loss, damage or other occurrence,
including fire and environmental hazards and power interruptions that may result in any of those Facilities
and Systems being unavailable when required to provide the Services.
Security Incident Response and Management
17\. The Contractor must ensure that it has a security incident management Policy and response plan that is
reviewed at least annually.
PROTECTED INFORMATION AND DATA SECURITY
Encryption
18\. The Contractor must ensure that:
(a) encryption of data at rest is implemented and is maintained in effect, uninterrupted, and active at all
times, even in the case of equipment or technology failure, for all Protected Information stored on
Systems and Devices; and
(b) encryption end‐to‐end is implemented for all Protected Information in transit.
No storage on unencrypted portable media
19\. The Contractor must ensure that no Protected Information is stored on portable media for transport outside
of the Facilities or Systems without both the prior written approval of the Health Organization and ensuring
that the portable media and the Protected Information are encrypted.
Encryption standard
20\. For sections 18 and 19, encryption must comply with the Health Organization’s “Cryptographic Standards
for Information Protection” accessible at https://www2\.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/governments/services‐for‐
government/policies‐procedures.
28

Isolation controls and logical isolation of data
21\. The Contractor must implement and maintain the logical isolation of Protected Information, in effect,
uninterrupted, and active at all times, even in the case of equipment or technology failure.
ACCESS AND AUTHENTICATION
User Identifiers
22\. The Contractor must assign and ensure that user identifiers are unique and personal for log in to Systems
and Devices.
Access
23\. The Contractor must implement, follow, and regularly review and update, access control Policies that
address, without limitation, onboarding, off‐boarding, transition between roles, regular access reviews, limit
and control use of administrator privileges and inactivity timeouts for Facilities, Systems and Devices within
the Contractor’s control.
24\. The Contactor must ensure that all access to Protected Information and to Facilities, Systems and Devices is
based Least Privilege and Need‐to‐Know” based on role and responsibilities. The Contractor must identify
and segregate conflicting duties and areas of responsibility to reduce incidents of fraud and other abuse.
25\. The Contractor must verify an individual’s identity before assigning the individual a unique identifier that
would give them access to Facilities, Systems or Devices.
26\. The Contractor must implement a formal user registration process for Personnel that includes:
(a) verification of access levels;
(b) creating and maintaining records of access privileges;
(c) audit processes; and
(d) actions to ensure access is not given before approval is granted by the Contractor.
27\. The Contractor must maintain a current and accurate inventory of computer accounts and review the
inventory on a regular basis to identify dormant, fictitious or unused accounts.
28\. The Contractor must implement a monitoring process to oversee, manage and review Personnel access rights
and roles at regular intervals.
29\. The Contractor must ensure that all Systems and Devices:
(a) are configured in alignment with industry standards;
(b) enforce a limit of consecutive invalid logon attempts by a user during a predetermined time period;
(c) automatically lock the applicable account and Systems after failed logon failures;
(d) limit the number of concurrent sessions;
(e) prevent further access to Systems by initiating a session lock; and
29

(f) provide the capability of disconnecting or disabling remote access to the Systems.
Authentication
30\. The Contractor must use or require complex passwords or personal identification numbers (PINs) that are
not shared, default or blank and that are encrypted (not displayed) when entered, biometric accesses, keys,
smart cards, other logical or access controls, or combinations of them, to control access to Protected
Information and to Systems and Devices.
31\. The Contractor must ensure that Systems for password‐based authentication:
(a) enforce minimum password complexity, including requiring passwords to be case sensitive, contain a
minimum of eight characters and a combination of upper‐case letters, lower‐case letters, numbers,
and/or special characters;
(b) change authentication passwords regularly at predetermined intervals, but at a minimum semi‐
annually;
(c) store and transmit only encrypted representations of passwords;
(d) enforce password minimum and maximum lifetime restrictions;
(e) prohibit password reuse;
(f) prevent reuse of identifiers; and
(g) disable the identifier after ninety days of inactivity.
Highly sensitive Protected Information
32\. If this Agreement or the Health Organization under this Agreement indicates that any Protected Information
is highly sensitive, the Contractor must also ensure that Systems enforce with respect to that Protected
Information:
(a) two‐factor authentication for access;
(b) enhanced logging that logs all accesses;
(c) request based access; and
(d) no standing access rights.
SECURITY EVENT LOGS
Log generation, log retention and monitoring
33\. The Contractor must ensure that logging of Security Event Logs is enabled on all applicable Systems
components
34\. The Contractor must retain Security Event Logs for the Systems online for a minimum of 90 days and either
online or off‐line for an additional period of time adequate to enable the Contractor to conduct effective
security investigations into suspected or actual security incidents.
35\. The Contractor must retain Tenancy Security Event Logs online for a minimum of 90 days and either:
(a) such additional period of time as the Health Organization may instruct; or
30

(b) ensure that the Tenancy offers the technical capability for the Health Organization to retain the Tenancy
Security Event Logs,
to enable the Health Organization to comply with an information schedule approved under the Information
Management Act or other retention period required by law.
36\. Upon the Health Organization’s request, the Contractor must ensure that the Tenancy offers the technical
capability for the Health Organization to enable or configure the forwarding, extraction, backup of Tenancy
Security Event Logs from the Tenancy to the Health Organization’s security information and event
management system or to an external log storage and retention system.
37\. The Contractor must review Security Event Logs regularly to detect potential security incidents, using
automated tools or equivalent processes for the monitoring, review, correlating and alerting of Security Event
Logs.
HEALTH ORGANIZATION PROPERTY
Access to Health Organization facilities, systems or networks
38\. If the Health Organization makes available any facilities, systems, networks or devices for use of the
Contractor in relation to this Agreement, the Contractor must comply with, and permit access on its behalf
only by those authorized Personnel who have been instructed to comply with, the Health Organization’s
Policies then applicable to their acceptable use, access and protection accessible at
https://www2\.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/governments/services‐for‐government/policies‐procedures, including:
(a) “Appropriate Use Policy” (as also referenced in chapter 12 of the Health Organization’s “Core Policy
and Procedures Manual”);
(b) “Information Security Policy”;
(c) government wide IM/IT Standards; and
(d) sector or ministry specific IM/IT Standards, if any applicable to the Health Organization ministry,
agency or other representative receiving the Services.
39\. The Health Organization has the rights to:
(a) not make any particular Health Organization facility, system, network or device available before the
Contractor or individual Personnel or both agree to a form of agreement acceptable to the Health
Organization on acceptable use, protection of, and access to, such facility, system, network or device,
or at all;
(b) not permit connection to any particular Health Organization system or network until satisfied with the
controls applied and the security status of the Device to be connected;
(c) keep facilities access logs and Security Event Logs, and to otherwise monitor and analyze use of Health
Organization facilities, systems and networks to verify compliance, investigate suspected or actual
breaches or information incidents and protect the Health Organization’s assets, including records, in
compliance with applicable laws, including the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act and
Information Management Act, and the Health Organization’s Policies; and
(d) limit or revoke access to any Health Organization systems, facility or device at its discretion.
31

Application development
40\. If the Services include software development, the Contractor must ensure that the applications and
programming interfaces are developed according to industry standards and Health Organization’s Policies
applicable to application development standards. The Contractor must use secure application development
practices for the development of the software.
FACILITIES, SYSTEMS, DATABASE AND DEVICE SECURITY
Physical security
41\. The Contractor must ensure that adequate physical controls and processes are implemented to ensure that
only authorized persons have physical access to the Facilities and Systems.
42\. The Contractor must develop, document, and disseminate a physical and environmental protection Policy
that it reviews at least annually.
43\. The Contractor must review physical access logs at least once monthly.
44\. The Contractor must ensure that physical security of any Systems or Facilities being used or capable of being
used to house Protected Information meets a standard as would be reasonably expected to provide adequate
protection based on the value of the data being protected and the environment in which the Systems or
Facilities are located. At a minimum, this should include:
(a) hardening of the perimeter of the Facilities;
(b) physical separation of public and restricted spaces;
(c) Intrusion Alarm System (IAS) partitioned to ensure areas containing Protected Information are
protected at all times;
(d) Access Control Systems (ACS) and/or Key Management processes; and
(e) visitor and identity management processes – including access logs and identification badges.
Separation of production from test environments
45\. The Contractor must not use any production data in any development, test or training environments used
for the Services without the Health Organization’s prior written consent. If the Health Organization gives
such consent, the production data must, at minimum, be obfuscated (for example, by using data masking
functionality).
46\. The Contractor must keep its development, test and training environments separate from its production
environments used for the Services at all times, even in case of failure.
Systems (including servers) hardening
47\. The Contractor must:
(a) harden all Systems against attack and misuse, using appropriate security best practices for the
hardening of the specific deployed platform, before placing those Systems into production;
(b) ensure that all unsecured and unneeded ports, services, applications, protocols and network
communicating applications are uninstalled or disabled on all Systems;
32

(c) applying Least Privilege, ensure that the Contractor only configures and makes operational ports,
services, applications, protocols and network communicating applications based on the functional
requirements of the respective Systems;
(d) ensure that default passwords and shared accounts are not used for any Systems; and
(e) in relation to Systems, implement server hardening using configuration security best practices (for
example, Center for Internet Security, Inc. (CIS) Benchmarks or equivalent) for any server operating
systems, server virtualization, server middleware (for example, web servers and database servers) and
application servers.
Perimeter controls (firewall and intrusion prevention system) and network security
48\. The Contractor must:
(a) implement stateful packet inspection firewalls to control traffic flow to and from Systems and Tenancy
at all times, and configure the stateful packet inspection firewalls applying security best practices and
Least Privilege;
(b) implement an intrusion prevention System to control and filter traffic flow leaving and entering
Systems and Tenancy at all times, and configure the intrusion prevention System applying security
best practices; and
(c) implement a secure network perimeter and network segmentation for Systems, with ingress and egress
points that are known and controlled.
Application firewall
49\. The Contractor must implement application layer firewalls on Systems:
(a) at such level of protection as the Health Organization may instruct ; and
(b) to detect and mitigate application attacks (for example, brute force, OWASP Top 10, SQL injection,
cross site scripting).
Management network
50\. The Contractor must ensure that for any Systems:
(a) the management network remains logically separated from any other zone and is not directly accessible
from the Internet;
(b) the management network is internally segmented, with each server’s dedicated network interface on
its own segmented network and that interfaces on the management network do not have visibility to
each other; and
(c) all access to the management network is strictly controlled and exclusively enforced though a secure
access gateway, bastion host or equivalent.
Remote management and secure access gateway
51\. The Contractor must perform any remote management of Systems or Devices in a secure manner, using
encrypted communication channels and adequate access controls.
33

Database security
52\. The Contractor must ensure that for any Systems:
(a) database maintenance utilities that bypass controls are restricted and monitored;
(b) there is a formal approval process in place for handling requests for disclosure of database contents or
for database access, including steps to evaluate privacy impacts and security risks of such requests; and
(c) methods to check and maintain the integrity of the data are implemented (for example, consistency
checks and checksums).
53\. For database security, the Contractor must implement logical isolation and encryption of Protected
Information.
Device security and antivirus scanning
54\. The Contractor must ensure all Devices:
(a) have antivirus and malware protection as appropriate for the particular Device active at all times;
(b) are configured to perform antivirus scans at least once per week;
(c) have host based firewall configured, enabled and active at all times; and
(d) have all patches and appropriate security updates installed for the operating system and all installed
software.
VULNERABILITY PREVENTION, SCANNING AND MANAGEMENT
Proactive management
55\. The Contractor must:
(a) obtain information in a timely basis about technical vulnerabilities relating to Systems and Devices;
and
(b) implement processes to stay current with security threats.
Patching
56\. The Contractor must patch all Systems regularly in line with security best practices and ensure that current
software, operating systems and application patching levels are maintained.
57\. The Contractor must ensure that all Systems have all patches installed on a regular schedule, within the time
frame recommended by the manufacturer unless the Health Organization otherwise consents in writing.
58\. The Contractor must ensure that vulnerabilities are remedied and patches installed on an accelerated basis
for zero‐day, critical and high vulnerabilities. For zero‐day vulnerabilities, the Contractor must implement
appropriate mitigation measures promptly on notification of the zero‐day vulnerability. The Contractor
must remediate zero‐day, high and critical vulnerabilities through patching, decommission, or compensating
controls.
34

59\. The Contractor must patch high vulnerabilities within 30 days or less of discovery and patch medium
vulnerabilities within 90 days or less of discovery.
Vulnerability Scanning
60\. The Contractor must ensure that a vulnerability scan is completed on components of all Systems:
(a) with any identified vulnerabilities remedied, before being placed into production; and
(b) on a regular schedule, set at a minimum of one scan per quarter, unless the Health Organization
otherwise consents in writing.
Web application vulnerability scanning
61\. The Contractor must ensure that a vulnerability scan is completed on any web applications used for Tenancy
or in any other Systems:
(a) and on any major changes to such web applications, with any identified vulnerabilities remedied,
before being placed into production; and
(b) on a regular schedule, set at a minimum of one scan per quarter, unless the Health Organization
otherwise consents in writing.
Antivirus and malware scanning
62\. The Contractor must ensure that all Systems servers:
(a) have antivirus and malware protection configured, active and enabled at all times;
(b) have antivirus and malware definitions updated at least once a day; and
(c) are configured to undergo a full anti‐virus scan for latent infections (to detect infections missed by the
real‐time agent) at least once a week.
DISPOSALS
Asset disposal
63\. The Contractor must ensure that all disposals of assets used in providing or relating to the Services are done
in a secure manner that ensures that Protected Information cannot be recovered.
Asset management
64\. The Contractor must have asset management and disposal Policies that are followed, and reviewed and
updated regularly in line with security best practices, and that address hardware, software and other critical
business assets.
65\. The Contractor must keep an asset management inventory that includes the name of the System, location,
purpose, owner, and criticality, with assets added to inventory on commission and removed on
decommission.
35

Information destruction and disposal
66\. Unless this Agreement otherwise specifies, the Contractor must retain all records containing Protected
Information in the Contractor’s possession until instructed by the Health Organization in writing to dispose
or deliver them as instructed.
67\. The Contractor must securely erase:
(a) records that contain Protected Information and Tenancy Security Event Logs when instructed in
writing by the Health Organization; and
(b) any backup, transitory and extra copies of records that contain Protected Information or Tenancy
Security Event Logs when no longer needed in relation to this Agreement.
68\. The Contractor must ensure that Protected Information and Tenancy Security Event Logs on magnetic media
are securely wiped by overwriting using procedures and adequate media wiping solutions, degaussing, or
other method in line with security best practices for disposal of media.
NOTICES, INCIDENTS AND INVESTIGATIONS
Notice of demands for disclosure
69\. In addition to any obligation the Contractor may have to notify or assist the Health Organization under
applicable law or this Agreement, including the Privacy Protection Schedule if attached, if the Contractor is
required (including under an enactment or a subpoena, warrant, order, demand or other request from a
court, government agency or other legal authority) to produce, provide access to or otherwise disclose any
Protected Information, the Contractor must, unless prohibited by applicable law, immediately notify and
provide reasonable assistance to the Health Organization so the Health Organization may seek a protective
order or other remedy to prevent or limit the disclosure.
E‐discovery and legal holds
70\. The Contractor must fully co‐operate with the Health Organization to enable the Health Organization to
comply with e‐discovery and legal hold obligations.
Incidents
71\. In addition to any obligation the Contractor may have under applicable law, including the Freedom of
Information and Protection of Privacy Act, or this Agreement, if, during or after the Term, the Contractor
discovers a suspected or actual unwanted or unexpected event or series of events that threaten the privacy
or security of Protected Information (including its unauthorized access, collection, use, disclosure, alteration,
storage or disposal) or Tenancy, whether accidental or deliberate, the Contractor must:
(a) immediately report the particulars of such incident to, and follow the instructions of, the Health
Organization, confirming any oral report with a notice in writing to the Health Organization as soon
as reasonably practicable (if unable to contact the Health Organization’s contract manager or other
designated contact for this Agreement, the Contractor must follow the procedure for reporting and
managing information incidents on the Health Organization’s website at
https://www2\.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/governments/services‐for‐government/information‐
management‐technology/information‐security/information‐incidents; and
(b) make every reasonable effort to recover the records containing Protected Information and contain and
remediate such incident, following such reasonable instructions as the Health Organization may give.
36

Investigations support and security investigations
72\. The Contractor must:
(a) conduct security investigations in the case of incidents (including any security breach or compromise)
affecting Devices, Facilities, Systems, Tenancy or Protected Information, collecting evidence,
undertaking forensic activities and taking such other actions as needed;
(b) provide the Health Organization with any related investigation reports, which the Contractor may
sanitize first;
(c) upon the Health Organization’s request, provide the Health Organization with any logs relating to
such investigation reports as validation/confirmation of such investigation, which the Contractor may
sanitize first; and
(d) maintain a chain of custody in all such security investigations it undertakes.
73\. Upon the Health Organization’s request, the Contractor must:
(a) provide investigative support to the Health Organization to enable the Health Organization to conduct
its own security investigations into incidents (including security breaches or compromises) affecting
the Tenancy or Protected Information;
(b) provide the Health Organization with timely access via an on‐line, real‐time GUI (Graphic User
Interface) facility to any Tenancy Security Event Logs and to other Security Event Logs for Systems (the
latter of which the Contractor may sanitize first to mask or remove, for example, data pertaining to the
Contractor’s customers) to assist the Health Organization in conducting the Health Organization’s
security investigations, or in case of technical limitations, other method acceptable to the Health
Organization (for example, on‐site visits to enable direct access to those Security Event Logs).
74\. The Contractor must work with and support the Health Organization if the Health Organization needs
assistance in legal proceedings in relation to security investigations related to Protected Information or
Tenancy.
Health Organization Security Threat and Risk Assessment (“STRA”) support
75\. The Contractor must, via its technical and security resources, support the Health Organization in completing
a STRA for the Services and to otherwise assess the risks associated with the Services, including by providing
all information and documentation (for example, architecture diagrams, service architecture, controls
architecture and technical information), which the Contractor may sanitize first and that the Health
Organization may reasonably require for such purpose.
Notification of changes
76\. The Contractor must notify the Health Organization of any changes to its security Policies, management
practices and security controls described in this Agreement that may potentially negatively impact the
security of Tenancy, Protected Information, or those Systems providing the Services.
Compliance verification
77\. Upon the Health Organization’s request, the Contractor must provide, at no additional cost, the following
security reports to the Health Organization at least every six months during the Term:
(a) vulnerability scan reports of those Systems providing the Services; and
(b) patch status reports for those Systems providing the Services.
37

78\. In addition to any other rights of inspection the Health Organization may have under this Agreement or
under statute, the Health Organization has the rights, at any reasonable time and on reasonable notice to the
Contractor, to:
(a) request the Contractor to verify compliance with this Schedule and to keep security controls
documentation or records to support compliance; and
(b) enter on the Contractor premises and Facilities to inspect and to validate the Contractor’s compliance
with the security obligations under this Agreement
79\. The Contractor must permit, and provide reasonable assistance to, the exercise by the Health Organization
of the Health Organization’s rights under this section. If any non‐compliance or deficiency is found, the
Health Organization may (in addition to any other rights it may have) require the Contractor, at the
Contractor’s expense, to develop and implement a corrective action plan within a reasonable time.
Notice of non‐compliance
80\. If for any reason the Contractor does not comply, or anticipates that it will be unable to comply, with a
provision in this Schedule in any respect, the Contractor must promptly notify the Health Organization of
the particulars of the non‐compliance or anticipated non‐compliance and what steps it proposes to take to
address, or prevent recurrence of, the non‐compliance or anticipated non‐compliance.
MISCELLANEOUS
Interpretation
81\. In this Schedule, unless otherwise specified, references to sections by number are to sections of this Schedule.
82\. Any reference to the “Contractor” in this Schedule includes any subcontractor or agent retained by the
Contractor to perform obligations under this Agreement and the Contractor must ensure that any such
subcontractors and agents comply with this Schedule.
83\. Any reference to a specified Policy refers to it as may be revised or replaced from time to time.
84\. If a provision of this Schedule conflicts with a documented process required by this Schedule to be created
or maintained by the Contractor, the provision of the Schedule will prevail to the extent of the conflict.
Referenced documents
85\. Policies and other documents of the Health Organization referenced in this Schedule may be updated or
replaced by the Health Organization from time to time without notice, and if not found at the hyperlink or
URL provided, be obtained from the Health Organization’s contact for this Agreement.
Survival
86\. Sections 63, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, and 71 and other obligations of the Contractor in this Schedule which, by their
terms or nature, are intended to survive the completion of the Services or the termination of this Agreement,
will continue in force indefinitely subject to any applicable limitation period prescribed by law, even after
this Agreement ends.
38

Schedule H – Tax Verification Schedule
1\. In this Schedule:
a) “Tax Verification Letter” means a letter issued by the Province of British Columbia’s Ministry of
Finance verifying that the Contractor meets its applicable B.C. corporate income tax filing obligations
and provincial sales tax (PST) filing and payment obligations; and
b) “Valid” means that the Tax Verification Letter’s period of validity, as indicated on the Tax Verification
Letter, has not ended.
2\. As a condition of entering into this Agreement, the Contractor provided to the Health Organization a Valid
Tax Verification Letter.
3\. Upon request by the Health Organization, the Contractor must provide the Health Organization with a new
Valid Tax Verification Letter. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Contractor
acknowledges and agrees that any extension or renewal of this Agreement is conditional upon the Health
Organization having, or receiving from the Contractor in response to a request from the Health Organization,
a Valid Tax Verification Letter prior to any such extension or renewal.
39

