REQUEST FOR QUOTATION
Supply and Delivery of Bulk Winter Road Salt
RFQ \#: 6521\-0124
Resort Municipality of Whistler
whistler.ca

Request for Quotation
Supply and Delivery of Bulk Winter Road Salt
The Resort Municipality of Whistler (RMOW)
Request Number RFQ \#: 6521\-0124
Issued: 28AUG2024
Closing Time and Date: 16:00:00 hours; 18SEP2024
Closing Location: stores@whistler.ca
Kevin Murray, Purchasing Agent
Contact Person:
kmurray@whistler.ca
REQUEST FOR QUOTATION
Page 2 of 9

1\.0 REQUEST FOR QUOTATION
The Resort Municipality of Whistler (RMOW) invites Quotations from experienced and qualified Contractors
for the provision of everything required including all skilled labour, tools, materials, equipment for the Supply
\& Delivery of Bulk Winter Road Salt and any other requirements. All bids must be submitted electronically
via email to stores@whistler.ca before the closing date and time. Bids not submitted to stores@whistler.ca
will not be accepted.
1\. REQUIRED PRODUCTS
The Contractor shall supply and deliver to the RMOW bulk winter road salt. Bulk winter road salt shall
be Sodium Chloride Type I, Grade 1, conforming to the latest revision of ASTM Standard
Specification D632\. MOT and PNS approved. The salt is to be available in October 2024\.
2\. QUANTITY GUARANTEE
Salt supply and delivery to the RMOW shall be subject to the guarantees described below:
(a) The RMOW will purchase a minimum of 80% of its total estimated tonnage awarded under an
agreement and the Contractor is obligated to furnish a maximum of 150% of the total estimated
tonnage awarded. As used in this paragraph, “total estimated tonnage” means the total
estimated tonnage as averaged by the RMOW over the past several winter seasons. Should the
RMOW require additional salt supply beyond the 150% maximum then the Contractor will deem
the RMOW to be a priority customer and acting reasonably will negotiate a rate for subsequent
supply.
(b) Regular Salt deliveries requires the Contractor to provide not less than 80% and not more than
150% (unless otherwise agreed) of the estimated annual quantity available for delivery.
3\. DELIVERY
(a) The Contractor will be required to deliver quantities to the RMOW Public Works Yard, 8020
Nesters Road, Whistler, BC, V8E 1K2
(b) All deliveries will be coordinated through the RMOW’s Stores Department. The Contractor must
adhere to the delivery schedule as established by our Stores Department, or contact our Stores
Department if changes in operations occur.
(c) All truckloads delivered to the RMOW by the Contractor must be accompanied by a numbered
delivery ticket containing the following information:
(i) Contractor’s name;
(ii) Location of Contractor’s source of supply;
(iii) Tonnage delivered;
(iv) RMOW’s purchase order number; and
(v) Signature of RMOW’s employee receiving the Goods
(d) Upon request, re\-supply shall be made within a maximum of twenty\-four (24\) hours, seven (7\)
days per week. The Contractor is to designate an employee or person responsible for accepting
and scheduling telephone orders. For routine orders, the RMOW must be able to contact this
person anytime between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday.
4\. TERM
The Contractor will provide the Goods for the period commencing on October1st, 2024 and
terminating on May 1st, 2025\.
REQUEST FOR QUOTATION
Page 3 of 9

ESTIMATED ANNUAL
DESCRIPTION UNIT OF MEASURE UNIT PRICE
QUNATITY
Quantity Guarantee (80 – 150 %)
Sodium Chloride Type I, Grade 1 Tonnes 500
(Road Salt)
Other Fees
Total
The undersigned agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Request for Quotation and to supply
the items listed at the prices quoted. If a purchase order is issued by the RMOW to the undersigned, the
undersigned will be bound by and will comply with the terms and conditions contained in the Request for
Quotation and the purchase order which will constitute the full and complete agreement between the
parties.
This Quote request, your response and the attached terms and conditions govern our agreement.
BIDDER INFORMATION
Name and title of individual
Company name
Company address
Phone numbers Ph.
Email address
Signature of Person authorized to bind the bidder/Supplier Date
REQUEST FOR QUOTATION
Page 4 of 9

2\.0 REQUEST FOR QUOTATION TERMS AND CONDITIONS
1\. Late submissions or quotations will not be accepted or considered. It is the responsibility of the bidder to
ensure that the quotation arrives prior to the date and time and at the place indicated in this Request for
Quotation.
2\. Quotations must be in Canadian funds and include delivery destination duty paid (D.D.P.), Incoterms
2010\.
3\. If a bidder discovers that it has made an error in its quotation, the bidder may forward a correction
notice to the RMOW at this office, but it must be received prior to the closing date and time for the
Request for Quotation. Unless otherwise specified, quotations will be open for acceptance for 90 days
after the closing date.
4\. When quotations have been received and an award made, the successful bidder will be held to its
quotation as of the closing of the Request for Quotation irrespective of subsequent representation that
mistakes have been made in the quotation originally submitted.
5\. Notwithstanding paragraph 4 above, if it appears that an error has been made in a quotation, the RMOW
may, in its sole discretion, before awarding an order, communicate with the potential supplier to
ascertain if it will supply at the quoted price or withdraw the quotation. If the potential supplier is
permitted to withdraw its quotation, the potential supplier will not be considered on this Request for
Quotation.
6\. The RMOW reserves the right to award this order in part or in full, on the basis of quotations received
unless the potential supplier specifies that its quotation is valid only for the complete order.
7\. The lowest or any quotation will not necessarily be accepted.
8\. In the event of a discrepancy between the unit price and the extended price, the unit price shall govern.
9\. Bidders should use the unit of measure shown in the Request for Quotation. Where conversions are
required, these should be done by the bidder prior to submitting quotation.
10\. Bidders should refer to the Request for Quotation number in all correspondence.
11\. Bidders must comply with all applicable laws.
12\. Bidders are solely responsible for their own expenses, if any, in preparing an Request for Quotation
response and subsequent negotiation with the RMOW, if any.
13\. All inquiries related to this Request for Quotation are to be directed to the RMOW, Procurement Services,
as noted on the first page of this Request for Quotation. Information obtained from any other source
should not be relied upon. Do not contact the facility or end user. Inquiries and responses may be
distributed to all bidders at the RMOWs' option.
14\. All documents submitted to the RMOW are subject to the disclosure provisions of the Freedom of
Information and Protection of Privacy Act.
15\. The RMOW will not be obligated in any manner to any potential supplier whatsoever until a Purchase
Order has been issued by the RMOW respecting a quote.
16\. In the event of a tied bid, the bidder with the closest proximity to the RMOW shall be deemed the
successful bidder.
REQUEST FOR QUOTATION
Page 5 of 9

3\.0 FORM OF CONTRACT
Purchase Order Terms and Conditions
1\. Unless waived or otherwise agreed in writing by the Resort Municipality of Whistler (herein after
abbreviated as RMOW), this Purchase Order and its terms shall not be altered, amended, varied, or,
modified. Any inconsistent or additional terms or conditions proposed by the Supplier are hereby
rejected and shall not bind the RMOW in any way, unless otherwise specified on the front of this
Purchase Order.
2\. Payment for satisfactory goods and/or services shall be made in Canadian funds unless otherwise
specified on the front of this Purchase Order, net 30 days from date of delivery or invoice (whichever is
later) unless otherwise agreed. Cash discounts are to be calculated from date of receipt of acceptable
invoices by the RMOW.
3\. Goods are to be delivered D.D.P. (destination duty paid), Incoterms 2010 and includes unloading at
destination. It is the Supplier’s responsibility to arrange full and complete protection of shipment while in
transit to the RMOW.
4\. All Packages, packing slips, invoices, correspondence, customs documentation and freight bills of lading
shall have the RMOW’s complete Purchase Order number predominantly displayed and packing slips
shall accompany all shipments. Invoices will not be processed for payment until all items invoiced are
received and approved by the RMOW.
5\. For all goods and materials subject to Workplace Hazardous Material Information System (WHMIS)
legislation, Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) shall accompany the goods or materials and shipping
documents.
6\. Dangerous goods shall be shipped only in compliance with Canadian Transportation of Dangerous Good
(TDG) Regulations, 49 CFR U.S. Hazardous Materials Regulations, and all other environmental laws,
rules, regulations and procedures, where applicable.
7\. Unless otherwise specified, the price specified on the front of this Purchase Order shall be the complete
cost (i.e. amount without taxes) to the RMOW and includes all fees, royalties, licenses, levies and
charges of every description (including charges for crating, boxing cartage and unloading at destination).
Information on the front of this Purchase Order shall indicate the Goods and Services and B.C. Provincial
Sales taxes applicable.
8\. Time of delivery and/or installation shall be of the essence. Failure to deliver or install in the quantities
and with the specifications described on the delivery dates specified shall entitle the RMOW at its sole
option to cancel any portion or all of the shipment without liability or cost, in addition to any other rights
of the RMOW.
9\. Regardless of payment, all goods and services shall be subject to inspection and approval by the RMOW
without limitation as to time. The RMOW may reject the goods and/or services, in whole or in part,
and/or terminate the contract if, in the opinion of the RMOW, the goods and/or services, in whole or in
part, are unsatisfactory, non\-conforming to order or specification, or if the Supplier has breached any
term or condition of this Purchase Order.
10\. In the case of rejected goods, the RMOW may either return those goods to the Supplier at the Supplier’s
risk and expense or, advise the Supplier to remove the rejected goods, at the Supplier’s risk and
expense, whereupon any responsibility of the RMOW with respect to the rejected goods shall absolutely
cease.
11\. In the case of rejected services, the RMOW may either require the Supplier to re\-perform the services at
the Supplier’s expense or terminate the contract without payment or obtain the services from another
source at the Supplier’s expense. PURCHASE ORDER TERMS AND CONDITIONS
12\. In addition to the RMOW’s rights at law, of the Purchase Order, and any other Supplier warranties, and
regardless of prior payment, the Supplier shall, at its own expense, replace any goods or parts thereof or
redo any services which become defective or unusable as a result of faulty manufacture, design,
REQUEST FOR QUOTATION
Page 6 of 9

material or workmanship for a period of one (1\) year from date of delivery or installation (whichever is
later), unless otherwise specified on the front of this Purchase Order.
13\. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR: If providing Services, the relationship of Supplier to the RMOW will be that
of an independent contractor and not an employee, partner or agent. Supplier shall not enter into any
contract or commitment in the name of or on behalf of the RMOW or bind the RMOW in any respect
whatsoever. Supplier confirms and agrees that there are no employee related benefits or fringe benefits
of any kind receivable in connection with the performance of the Services. The Supplier, its
subcontractors and assignees are solely responsible for making contributions for Employment Insurance,
WorkSafe BC, Canada Pension Plan, employee income tax deductions (submitted directly to the
government), insurance costs or other similar levies. Supplier shall indemnify and save harmless RMOW,
its directors, officers and affiliates from and against all payments, costs, damages, expenses, interest,
penalties and other liabilities assessed against, paid or incurred by the RMOW or its affiliates in
connection with such contributions or payments. Supplier shall ensure that its employees conform to the
RMOW’s policy and procedures concerning workplace behaviours, health and safety requirements.
14\. Payment Holdback: the RMOW reserves the right to retain a 10% builder’s lien holdback of all payments
for Suppliers On\-Site Work and subcontractor charges until expiry of the statutory lien period.
15\. Waste Management and Clean\-Up: On\-Site Work shall be confined to the work/storage area(s)
designated by the RMOW. The Supplier shall
 Ensure that all transportation, storage and/or disposal of materials is performed in accordance with
applicable environmental laws and all current waste management procedures of RMOW;
 Ensure that RMOW’s premises are kept tidy and free at all times from the accumulation of waste
material, scrap, surplus material and debris resulting from the On\-Site Work and that all
accumulations are separated in designated barrels and bins; and
 Upon completion of the On\-Site Work and/or when directed by RMOW, promptly remove any
temporary work and all accumulation of waste material, scrap, surplus material and debris and leave
RMOW's premises in a clean condition. The Supplier must receive approval from the RMOW before
using any of the RMOW's pollution control or waste disposal facilities.
16\. This Purchase Order shall not be assigned or sub\-contracted by the Supplier, in whole or in part, without
the express written consent of the RMOW.
17\. The following warranties shall apply to any goods or services supplied or delivered: • All terms,
conditions, warranties, and undertakings implied by the Sale of Goods Act (British Columbia) shall apply,
save as expressly qualified on the front of the Purchase Order;
 All services provided shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner by qualified personnel;
 All goods shall be new, latest model and/or latest version unless otherwise specified on the front of
the Purchase Order;
 All goods shall be free and clear of any liens, claims, security interests or rights in favour of any third
person;
 The Supplier shall comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, building codes, regulations and
bylaws, whether Federal, Provincial or Local;
 The Supplier shall pay its employees, subcontractors and suppliers as and when due, and make all
necessary payments, withholdings and remittances to all applicable governmental agencies,
including WorkSafe BC Board, Revenue Canada and Canada Pension Plan, and shall comply with all
applicable employment and workplace safety standards;
 All electrical and electronic goods and components ordered shall conform to the standards of the
British Columbia Electrical Safety Branch or have been approved by the Canadian Standards
Association (CSA);
REQUEST FOR QUOTATION
Page 7 of 9

 The Supplier at its own expense, shall be solely responsible for obtaining and maintaining all
necessary building and other permits, licences or fees and approvals for performance of its
obligations, including any final occupancy permits, required in order for the RMOW to use and enjoy
the subject goods and services;
 The Supplier covenants that there has been no violation or infringement of trade marks, patent,
copyright or any other intellectual property right of another person in the manufacturer, production or
sale of the goods, materials or services supplied under this Purchase Order.
18\. The Supplier shall indemnify, defend and save harmless the RMOW from any and all claims, suits,
actions, causes of actions, administrative proceedings, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses
(including legal fees on a solicitor/client basis) arising out of any act, omission, breach or default arising
out of the performance or non\-performance of this Purchase Order except to the extent such loss or
damage is caused by the negligence of the RMOW. The provisions of this indemnity are paramount to
any insurance requirements herein and shall survive the term of this Purchase Order.
19\. The RMOW is not responsible for any risk of loss or damage to the equipment supplied until clear and
unrestricted title to such equipment is transferred to the RMOW. Clear and unrestricted title for any item
or equipment purchased shall pass to the RMOW at the D.D.P. destination point as shown herein or if
required, when the installation is completed and accepted.
20\. The Supplier shall maintain insurance coverage in an amount and form reasonably acceptable to the
RMOW. The insurances shall at a minimum include Commercial General Liability, Automobile Liability
and WorkSafe BC Insurance. As applicable the Supplier shall maintain Professional Liability, Property All
Risks, Transit / Marine Insurance. The insurances carried by the Supplier are in support of the indemnity
provisions herein and do not restrict or minimize the liabilities of the Supplier to the RMOW or any third
parties.
21\. Limitation of Liability: Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Order, neither party shall be liable
to the other, for any losses, damages, costs or expenses of an indirect, incidental, special or
consequential nature, including, but not limited to, losses of use, profit or anticipated business.
22\. DISPUTES: All disputes concerning questions of fact(s) which may arise under this Order and which are
not disposed of by mutual agreement of the parties may, upon mutual agreement of the parties, be
referred to binding arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Act of British Columbia. In
the meantime, Supplier shall diligently proceed with performance of this Order.
23\. GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION: This Order shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance
with the laws of British Columbia, and the parties hereby expressly attorn to the jurisdiction of the courts
of British Columbia with respect to all matters relating to this Order.
24\. NOTICES: Any notice or communication under this Order will be effective only if it is in writing and
delivered in person, by overnight courier service or facsimile transmission, or mailed by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested, postage prepaid) or by E\-mail to the addressees address set
forth in this Order or to such other address as the addressee may designate to the sender in accordance
with this Section. All notices and communications will be deemed given when delivered in person or
overnight courier service, three days after mailing if mailed, or wen sent by facsimile transmission when
transmission confirmation is received or if sent by E\-mail receipt is deemed at completion of
transmission.
25\. WAIVER: RMOW's failure to insist on performance of any of the terms or conditions herein or to exercise
any right or privilege, or RMOW's waiver of any breach hereunder, shall not thereafter waive any other
terms, conditions, or privileges, whether of the same or similar type.
REQUEST FOR QUOTATION
Page 8 of 9

26\. SEVERABILITY: If any term of this Order is deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or
unenforceability shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining terms of this order.
REQUEST FOR QUOTATION
Page 9 of 9

