The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver
Request for Quotation Hauling and Disposal of Excavation Material
THE CITY OF NORTH VANCOUVER
REQUEST FOR QUOTATION
HAULING AND DISPOSAL OF EXCAVATION MATERIAL
1

The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver
Request for Quotation Hauling and Disposal of Excavation Material
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1\.0 INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................... 3
2\.0 CONDITIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS ..................................... 3
3\.0 PRICE QUOTATION ..................................................................................... 6
4\.0 RESPONSE CONTENT ................................................................................. 8
5\.0 SPECIFICATIONS ......................................................................................... 9
6\.0 TERM ............................................................................................................. 9
7\.0 EVALUATION ............................................................................................... 9
APPENDIX A CITY OF NORTH VANCOUVER REQUEST FOR QUOTATION ... 10
APPENDIX B PROPONENT COMMITMENT ........................................................ 11
APPENDIX C SITE MAP ....................................................................................... 13
2

The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver
Request for Quotation Hauling and Disposal of Excavation Material
1\.0 INTRODUCTION
1\.1 The City of North Vancouver is requesting quotations for hauling and disposal of
excavation material starting January 1st 2025\. The Materials are located at the City’s
soil recycling facility (see appendix “C”) at the north end of Monashee Drive and
Lillooet Rd., North Vancouver. This Request for Quotation requires the selected
proponent(s) to both haul and dispose of materials loaded from this site.
1\.2 All enquiries regarding this Request for Quotation must be directed to:
Mr. Scott Reiss, Buyer
Finance Department
City of North Vancouver
141 West 14th Street
North Vancouver, BC V7M 1H9
Ph: 604\-983\-7309
Email: purchasing@cnv.org
2\.0 CONDITIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS
The following conditions and instructions will apply to this Request for Quotation.
Submission of a quotation indicates acceptance of all the terms that follow, and that are
included in any addenda issued by the City.
2\.1 Quotations should be received on or before:
4:00PM (local time) Thursday, October 17, 2024
The City prefers electronic submission of responses. Submissions should be
in the form of a single pdf file. Maximum file size is 20MB. Should the
submission exceed 20MB multiple emails submissions can be sent.
Submissions are to be sent by email to purchasing@cnv.org
1\. In the email subject field enter: Hauling and Disposal RFQ
2\. Attach the file in .pdf format and send (ensure you receive an email
confirmation to confirm upload is complete)
Quotations submitted shall be deemed to be successfully received when
displayed as a new email in the in\-box of the City email address. The City
will not be liable for any delay for any reason including technological delays,
or issues by either party’s network or email program, and the City will not
be liable for any damages associated with Quotations not received.
3

The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver
Request for Quotation Hauling and Disposal of Excavation Material
If there is no ability to submit electronically a paper copy of the quotation
may be submitted, on or before the closing time to: Mr. Scott Reiss Buyer,
City of North Vancouver, 141 West 14th Street, North Vancouver, BC V7M
1H9\.
2\.2 All Quotations and subsequent information or material received shall
become the property of the City of North Vancouver and will not be returned.
The information received will be held in confidence by the City subject to
the provisions of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act.
2\.3 Prior to the date for submission of proposals, proponents should not contact any other
representative of the City regarding this Request for Proposal, other than the
representative identified in Section 1\.2, without that representative’s permission.
Unauthorized contact with any City representatives, including members of City Council,
may be cause for the rejection of the proponent’s proposal.
2\.4 Quotations may be withdrawn by written request only, to the Purchasing
Manager at any time prior to the scheduled closing time. No Proponent may
withdraw their Quotation for a period of sixty (60\) days after the date set for
the receiving thereof.
2\.5 The lowest or any quotation will not necessarily be accepted. The City
reserves the full right, in its sole discretion and according to its own
judgment of its best interest, to reject any and all quotations.
2\.6 The City reserves the right to award to one (1\) or multiple Bidders.
2\.7 The City is under no obligation to award a contract as a result of this
Request for Quote and reserves the right to terminate this Request for
Quote process for any reason, at any time. The City may then do nothing,
retender, sole source or complete the work with the City’s own forces.
2\.8 Bidders are cautioned to carefully read and follow the procedures, terms
and conditions required by this invitation, as any deviation, omission, as well
as any inaccuracies or misstatements may be cause for rejection. However,
the City reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to waive minor irregularities
and defects in a submission, and proceed with that bidder.
2\.9 Except as expressly and specifically permitted in these instructions,
no bidder shall have any claim for any compensation of any kind
whatsoever, as a result of participating in this invitation, and by submitting
a quotation each bidder shall be deemed to have agreed that it has no
claim.
4

The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver
Request for Quotation Hauling and Disposal of Excavation Material
2\.10 This Request for Quotation, any attached specifications and the successful
Proponent’s response will form part of any contract entered into.
2\.11 Pricing will be firm for the 1 year contract period. All prices quoted are to
be, in Canadian dollars exclusive of any applicable taxes, inclusive of any
duty, levy’s and FOB destination and include delivery charges.
2\.12 FOB POINT: “CNV Quarry Site” End of Lillooet Road \- See Appendix “C”
2\.13 Any dispute arising from this Request for Quotation, or subsequent
agreement, will be resolved according to the laws of the Province of British
Columbia.
2\.14 All amendments or further Information will be published at the BC Bid website. It is the
responsibility of proponents of this RFP to monitor this web site to check for updates.
The City will not accept questions or requests for clarification within 3 business days of
the closing date and time.
2\.15 Sustainability: The Proponent is encouraged to provide information
regarding its organization’s particular environmental and/or social impacts.
The Proponent may wish to provide a statement, including any supporting
documentation, that addresses how its organization minimizes: waste
emissions, the use or generation of harmful substances, the use of non\-
renewable resources and, substitutes a renewable resource or recycled
content and post consumer waste, and/or maximizes energy and materials
efficiency, and/or involves actions which contribute to social development
or assists in the conservation or development of social capital either in this
community or elsewhere.
2\.16 Proponents are to maintain that their company is in good standing with Worksafe BC
for the duration of the project
2\.17 The proponent, at their own expense must have a current and valid business license
registered with the City of North Vancouver.
2\.18 The Proponent will obtain and maintain for the length of the contract a Commercial
General Liability insurance policy with coverage of not less than $5,000,000\. The
Proponent will provide to the City an insurance certificate which indicates the City as
Additional Insured and contains a 30 day notice of cancellation from the insurer.
2\.19 The Proponent will indemnify and save harmless us and our employees and agents
from any losses, claims, damages, actions, causes of action, costs and expenses that
we or any of our employees or agents may sustain, incur, suffer or be put to at any
time, either before or after this agreement ends, which are based upon, arise out of or
occur, directly or indirectly, by reason of, any act or omission by you or by any of your
agents, employees, officers, directors, or subcontractors in providing the services.
5

The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver
Request for Quotation Hauling and Disposal of Excavation Material
2\.20 The proponent shall not sub\-contract any part of the work or assign the agreement
without prior consent from the City. In the event that the work is subcontracted, the
City will pay no more that the rates supplied by the proponents bid pricing.
2\.21 Proponents are expected to be aware of the requirements of the City’s
Supplier Code of Conduct and to comply. The code of conduct is part of
the City’s Sustainability Policy see Appendix B here:
https://www.cnv.org/city\-services/bid\-notices/sustainable\-purchasing\-
policy
2\.22 Respondents should be aware that the City of North Vancouver is a Living Wage
Employer, and expects its contractors and service providers to comply and meet the
requirements of the Living Wage for Families Campaign. https://www.cnv.org/Your\-
Government/Sustainability\-in\-the\-City/Living\-Wage
3\.0 PRICE QUOTATION
3\.1 Proponents are to submit their quotation and qualifications on the next page
based on the quantities and specifications set out in this RFQ. The price submitted
shall be inclusive of all costs including trucking and disposal, and shall be the total
to complete the work outlined in this document excluding GST and PST.
3\.2 The City of North Vancouver estimates approximately 3000 – 5000 cubic meters of
construction excavation per year needing to be hauled and disposed of at an offsite
location. The City of North Vancouver cannot guarantee volumes.
3\.3 The successful proponent should have a relationship with a fill site that accepts bulk
excavation material throughout the calendar year.
3\.4 The City will coordinate and pay for all material testing and extra disposal cost of any
material found to be contaminated.
3\.5 Once loaded and the truck leaves the site, the material becomes the property of the
contractor. The contractor will pay for all dump fees. The cost of the dump fees shall
be included in the contract rate.
3\.6 It is understood by the contractor that the volumes provided are estimates. Actual
volumes will vary. This contact is for work as and when required. The contractor will
not be entitled to compensation for lost profit if the volume of work is less than
anticipated.
3\.7 The contractor shall mobilize within 15 days of being notified by the City that
materials require removal.
6

The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver
Request for Quotation Hauling and Disposal of Excavation Material
3\.8 Work should commence at a date later than January 1, 2025\. This contract is for as
and when work for one year with options to extend for four additional one year terms.
3\.9 Proponents are required to complete the Price response sheet on the next page,
Appendix “A” Request for Quotation form, and Appendix “B” Proponent Commitment
form.
3\.10 The unit of measure for payment will be per the units listed on the price response
page, not by weight or volume. The trucks will be loaded by a City fill site employee
without exceeding vehicle weight restrictions. The City reserves the right to inspect
trucks entering and leaving the site, use video surveillance, and/or other technology
to verify the work is being done in accordance with this specification.
3\.11 Price includes all fees (including labour, delivery, equipment, fuel, maintenance,
dump fees, overhead, and insurance) except GST, which shall be calculated
separately and shown on invoices. Fuel price increases will not entitle the contractor
to rate increases or fuel surcharges. The City will not accept an additional levies and
fees. Pricing to remain firm for 1 year period.
7

The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver
Request for Quotation Hauling and Disposal of Excavation Material
4\.0 RESPONSE CONTENT
Hauling and disposal of material (put N/A if not applicable or no rate for type of truck)
Type of Truck Cost per load (GST extra)
Tandem drive
Tridem drive
Tandem drive, tandem pup/pony
Tridem drive, tridem pup/pony
Tandem drive end dump
Tridem drive end dump
LOCATION OF FILL / DUMP SITE
LIST SIMILAR HAULING \& DUMPING EXPERIENCE (MUNICIPAL OR OTHERWISE)
8

The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver
Request for Quotation Hauling and Disposal of Excavation Material
SUSTAINABILITY
Provide a list of, or any examples of sustainable practices your company uses to reduce
emissions and carbon footprints.
5\.0 SPECIFICATIONS
5\.1 Location – all trucking services will originate at the City of North Vancouver soil
recycling site located at the north end of Monashee Drive and Lillooet Rd., North
Vancouver. See appendix “C” site map.
6\.0 TERM
The duration of the agreement will last one (1\) year with the option to renew at the
sole discretion of the City of North Vancouver four (4\) consecutive one (1\) year terms.
7\.0 EVALUATION
The City of North Vancouver will evaluate and award a single response to this
Request for Quotation based on the following weighted criteria.
Price 70%
Experience 20%
Sustainability 10%
9

The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver
Request for Quotation Hauling and Disposal of Excavation Material
APPENDIX A CITY OF NORTH VANCOUVER REQUEST FOR QUOTATION
A cash discount of % will be allowed if accounts are paid within days
after receipt of correct invoices for goods or services which are accepted. (Discount
not considered in unit price evaluation).
COMPANY NAME:\_
COMPANY ADDRESS:\_
TELEPHONE NUMBER:\_
EMAIL:\_
NAME:
TITLE: \_
SIGNATURE:
DATE:
10

The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver
Request for Quotation Hauling and Disposal of Excavation Material
APPENDIX B PROPONENT COMMITMENT
This commitment must be signed and received with the proposal at the office of the
Purchasing Manager:
City of North Vancouver
Finance Department
141 West 14th Street
North Vancouver, B.C.
V7M 1H9
Attn: Scott Reiss, Buyer
No later than the closing date and time indicated in Section 2\.1
Sustainability Policy
City of North Vancouver sustainable purchasing policy requires that each proponent declare if
they have been found by a recognized regulatory body or adjudication body to be in violation
of any of the following Environmental or Social standards, laws, and regulations within the
past three years.
By submitting a proposal each proponent declares that there has been no violation other than
that set out in the table below.
Environmental
The City of North Vancouver expects that each Proponent has and will comply with any
applicable legislation pertaining to the environment. In Canada these include: Canadian
Environmental Protection Act, 1999 (Canada), Fisheries Act (Canada), Transportation of
Dangerous Goods Act (Canada/BC), Environmental Management Act (BC), GVSⅅ
Municipal Solid Waste and Recyclable Material Bylaw No. 181, GVRD Air Quality
Management Bylaw No. 937 and GVSⅅ Sewer Use Bylaw No. 164\.
Social
The City of North Vancouver expects that each Proponent has and will comply with
internationally recognized labour conventions and recommendations of the International
Labour Organization (ILO), of which Canada is a member, and any applicable legislation
pertaining to the work place safety, employment and human rights. In Canada these include:
the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act (Canada), Human Rights Act (BC), the
Employment Standards Act (BC) and the Workers’ Compensation Act (BC).
11

The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver
Request for Quotation Hauling and Disposal of Excavation Material
This section to be completed by proponent:
Commitment
The Proponent declares that the signing officer (below) or any person who currently holds or
has, at any time within the past three years, held the following positions or titles with the
Proponent: Officer, Director or Senior Manager, has not been convicted or subject to a
determination by a regulatory body, administrative body or other tribunal having jurisdiction over
the Proponent, of a violation, within the past three (3\) years, under the legislation applicable to
the Proponent, other than those set out in the table below
Title of act or Date of violation and Description of violation or Regulatory/Adjudication
Bylaw regulatory/adjudication body conviction body document file
number
The Proponent having carefully examined and read the RFQ, including all amendments
and addenda hereby acknowledges that it agrees and has understood all of the
foregoing and in response hereby submits the enclosed proposal.
Company Name \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Company Address \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Postal Code \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Phone Number: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Signature of Signing Officer \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Name of Signing Officer \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Title of Signing Officer \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Email of Signing Officer \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Date \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
12

The Corporation of the City of North Vancouver
Request for Quotation Hauling and Disposal of Excavation Material
APPENDIX C SITE MAP
13

