REQUEST FOR OFFER
Title: SLS 3D Printer
RFO Number: 5336
Issue Date: August 29, 2024
Closing Date \& Time: September 6, 2024 before 2:00PM Pacific Time
Purpose
Selkirk College is seeking offers for a Selective Laser Sintering 3D printer with specifications as listed on
Schedule A attached.
RFO Contact \& Address for Delivery of Response
Submissions must be received at: purchasing@selkirk.ca
Attention: Jocelyn Templeman, Procurement \& Contracts Manager
Destination
Delivery destination will be: 2950 Highway Drive, Trail, BC V1R 2T3
Pricing
Please bid net prices at which you agree to supply any of all of the items listed, delivered freight prepaid
FOB to the destination noted above. Offers must be made on this form and signed by an official signing
authority. Prices must be based on our units, extended and totalled. The delivery guarantee section must
be completed.
Specifications
Are the items offered exactly as described, including the brand name and model if specified? Please
answer “yes” or “no” in the column headed “Mfgrs Specs”. If “no” please provide specifications, brand
name and model of the alternative you are offering. Specifications must meet or exceed those of the
items requested on this form.

General Conditions
1\. Offers must be submitted on this offer form. Selkirk College will not consider bidder’s own
quotation.
2\. Unless otherwise specified, prices are:
a) to include all taxes, surcharges, recycling fees, except GST, PST and/or HST;
b) to include delivery to the destination noted;
c) be firm to 30 calendar days from the Closing Date; and
d) be in Canadian Dollars.
3\. If the delivery time varies from item to item, or if delivery is to be spread over a period of time, a
delivery schedule must be included.
4\. The College reserves the right to accept or reject all or any part of this Offer, unless otherwise
stated by the Bidder.
5\. In the case of a mistake in extension of pricing, unit pricing will govern.
6\. All electrical equipment offered must be CSA or Province of BC Electrical Energy Board approved
and shall bear the appropriate approval sticker.
7\. The College is not bound to accept the lowest or any offer.
8\. Any repairs, service, replacement, etc, in conjunction with the warranty/guarantee shall be at no
cost to the College.
9\. This completed offer form, specifications, general conditions and any attachments hereto shall
become part of any Contract entered into between the successful bidder and Selkirk College. In
this case, “Contract” can mean “Purchase Order”. Time shall be of the essence of this contract.
10\. Any and all reports, documents, software or other items of any nature whatsoever created by the
successful contractor in the performance of the contract issued due to the RFO, whether
completed or not, shall be delivered to Selkirk College upon request or upon completion of the
contract. Selkirk College shall own all patents and copyright in any work created by the successful
contractor during the performance of the contract.
11\. Travel reimbursement, if applicable, shall be in accordance with Selkirk College’s travel policy
(copy available on request).
12\. The Supplier warrants that the Supplier and, to the best of its knowledge and belief having made
reasonable enquiries, its supply chain have not been convicted of any offence involving modern
slavery. The Supplier must immediately notify the Customer if it becomes aware of any actual,
potential or perceived modern slavery in its operation or its supply chain. The Supplier warrants
that it and its supply chain will conduct their business in a manner so as to reduce the risk of
modern slavery in their operations and supply chains.
13\. Unless otherwise stated, the Procurement \& Contracts Manager has conduct of the contract.
14\. All questions relating to this RFO are to the made to the Purchasing Department:
E\-mail: purchasing@selkirk.ca
Phone: 250 365 1284 or 250 365 1219
Fax: 260 365 6568
15\. For information, Selkirk College is a member of BCNET, Complete Purchasing Services and is able
to leverage corporate supply arrangements offered by the BC Provincial Government.

SCHEDULE A \- GOODS
Mfgrs
Item
Qty Unit Description Specs Unit Price Total Price
\#
Yes/No
1 1 Ea SLS 3D Printer with the following specs:
• Printing Technology: Selective Laser Sintering (SLS)
• Build Volume: Minimum of 230 x 230 x 250 mm
• Material compatibility: Nylon 12, Nylon 11, PA6, TPU, TPC, PBT)
• Additional material compatibility requirement: HP MJF PA12 recycled material
• Support for Cold Metal Fusion printing
• Chemical Debind equipment (optional addition)
• Layer Thickness: Adjustable layer height between 50 and 300 microns
• Laser Power: 50\-100W laser power
• Software: Open Materials Platform / 3rd Party open materials usage
• Post\-processing: De\-powdering equipment/station (Integrated post\-processing solutions,
including powder recovery and cleaning stations)
• Certifications: CE and other relevant industry certifications for safety and quality
• Service and Support: Comprehensive multi\-year customer support, including training, technical
support, and software updates
• Sintering Oven not required for cold metal fusion \- do not add to quote
TOTAL PRICE (do not include GST / PST / HST):
Notes:
Example acceptable model: NEXA QLS 260
Selkirk College will consider alternatives, provided specifications meet or exceed those listed above.
Delivery Guarantee
We guarantee delivery to destination with \_\_\_\_\_\_\_ calendar days after receipt of order.
Payment Discount
We will allow \_\_\_\_\_\_% discount if accounts are either:
a) paid within \_\_\_\_\_\_ days, or
b) paid by the \_\_\_\_\_\_th of the month following receipt of goods and invoice.
Note that otherwise Selkirk College’s standard payment terms are: net 30 days.

Agreement
We have read all conditions noted in this document, provide our agreement thereto and agree to supply
the goods offered at the prices stated.
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Firm Name Address
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Name \& Title of Signing Officer Address
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Signature Phone E\-Mail

