TOWN OF SIDNEY
2024 MODEL COMPACT TRACTOR
CONTRACT NO. 2024\-009

TOWN OF SIDNEY
2024 MODEL COMPACT TRACTOR
CONTRACT NO. 2024\-009
INVITATION TO TENDER
The Town of Sidney invites Tenders for the supply of one (1\) new 2024 MODEL
COMPACT TRACTOR as described in the Tender Documents and Specifications.
Tenders clearly marked "Tender for 2024 Compact Tractor – Contract No. 2024\-009 is
scheduled to close at:
Tender Closing Time: 3:00 p.m. local time
Tender Closing Date: Thursday August 22, 2024\.
Tenders will be accepted in person, by mail, or by email
There will be no public opening, bidders will be notified of the results.
Tenders submitted via email are to be sent to tenders@sidney.ca Indicate “2024\-009
2024 Model Compact Tractor” in the subject line. Email submissions should be
submitted as one PDF virus free file and no larger than 10 Mb. Quotations will not be
opened in public.
END OF INVITATION TO TENDER

TOWN OF SIDNEY
2024 MODEL COMPACT TRACTOR
CONTRACT NO. 2024\-009
INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS
The Town of Sidney invites Tenders for the supply of one new 2024 Model Compact
Tractor according to the terms and conditions of these instructions and Tender
Documents.
1\.0 SUBMISSION OF TENDERS:
1\.1 Use of Contract Form:
Tenderers must submit their Tenders by completing the blanks in the attached
Tender Document, to specify the price, the delivery date and other required
information. The Tender must be completed in full. The Tender must be completed
in ink and no erasures are permitted.
Tenderers must execute the Tender under seal (if a company with a seal).
Completed Tenders may be sent electronically clearly marked "TENDER FOR
2024 MODEL COMPACT TRACTOR – CONTRACT 2024\-009", and addressed
to:
tenders@sidney.ca
no later than 3:00 p.m. local time August 22, 2024 (the "Closing Time").
Tenders received after that time will not be opened and are invalid.
1\.2 Tender Opening:
There will be no public opening and bidders can request to know the results by
contacting the Director of Corporate Services.
1\.3 Materials:
Where the Tender Documents specifies a particular material be used, that material
must be used or else the Tenderer must specify the equivalent substitute material
which will be used.
3

INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS CONT'D.
1\.4 Conditions Governing Tender Evaluation:
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily be accepted. The Town reserves
the right, in its sole discretion, to waive any incompleteness, informality, addition,
or irregularity in any Tender, to reject any or all Tenders (including where all Tender
prices exceed budget), and to accept any Tender the Town considers most
favorable to the Town's interests having regard to the price, the equipment, the
delivery, the warranties, the availability of servicing and other matters which the
Town in its sole discretion may consider.
The Tenderer understands and agrees that it has no rights or claims whatsoever
against the Town in the event that its Tender is not accepted, and the Contract not
entered into.
1\.5 Amendments and Revisions:
Written amendments or revisions to the Tender are acceptable, but only if received
prior to the Closing Time and only if submitted in accordance with Section 1\.0
hereof. Once submitted, no Tender may be withdrawn.
1\.6 Issuance of Addenda:
The Town may issue written Addenda to the Tender Documents changing,
clarifying or interpreting the Tender Documents. Changes to or clarifications or
interpretations of the Tender Documents are effective only if made by an
addendum issued by the Town. Any other information or change is ineffective and
does not bind the Town.
1\.7 Extension of Time:
The Town may, in its sole discretion, extend the Closing Time by an addendum
issued not less than five (5\) days before the Closing Time.
1\.8 Tenderer's Responsibility:
It is the sole responsibility of the Tenderer to obtain a change to or clarification or
interpretation of the Tender Documents if:
(a) any information necessary for a full and clear understanding of the Tender
Documents is absent from the Tender Documents;
(b) any conflict or error appears in the Tender Documents; or
(c) the Tenderer is aware of any facts or conditions which conflict with the
Tender Documents.
4

INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS CONT'D.
1\.9 Enquiries:
All enquiries for clarifications or interpretations of the Tender Documents must be
in writing and sent to the Town as follows:
Brian Robinson, Manager of Public Works and Parks
brobinson@sidney.ca
Enquiries must be received at least 5 business days prior to the Closing Time. No
addendum will be issued less than 2 business days prior to the Closing Time.
1\.10 Addenda Become Part of Tender Documents:
Addenda issued pursuant to these instructions become part of the Tender
Documents and therefore part of the Tender, as provided in the Contract.
1\.11 Irrevocability of Tenders:
Tenders are irrevocable and open for acceptance by the Town for 60 days after
the Closing Time, even if the Town within that time accepts another Tender.
1\.12 Acceptance of Tender:
Acceptance of a Tender will be communicated by the Town to the successful
Tenderer in writing.
1\.13 Formation of Contract:
Within three weeks of notifying the successful Tenderer of the Town's acceptance
of their offer, the Town will execute and deliver the Contract Document, possibly
in an amended form as detailed below.
1\.14 Negotiations with Tenderer:
The Town reserves the right, after communicating its acceptance of a Tender, to
negotiate minor amendments of the Tender with the successful Tenderer and
despite such negotiations, the offer of the successful Tenderer remains irrevocable
in the form submitted.
END OF INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS
5

TOWN OF SIDNEY
2024 MODEL COMPACT TRACTOR
CONTRACT NO. 2024\-009
TENDER DOCUMENTS
BETWEEN:
TOWN OF SIDNEY
2440 Sidney Avenue,
Sidney, B.C.,
V8L 1Y7
(the "Town")
AND:
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(name, including incorporation number and jurisdiction of
incorporation if a corporation)
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(address)
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(telephone number)
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(fax number)
(the "Supplier")
WHEREAS:
A. The Town requires one (1\) new 2024 Model Compact Tractor; and the Supplier is
willing to sell such to the Town.
NOW THEREFORE in consideration of the payments and promises contained in this
Agreement and other good and valuable consideration (the receipt and sufficiency of
which are acknowledged by both parties), the parties agree as follows:
6

TENDER DOCUMENTS CONT'D.
Tractor:
1\.0 The Supplier will sell one new 2024 Model Compact Tractor (the "Tractor") to the
Town on the terms and conditions in this Agreement. The Town will buy the Tractor
from the Supplier on the Terms and Conditions of this Agreement.
ACCESSORIES:
2\.0 The Supplier agrees that the Tractor will be delivered complete with those parts
and accessories specified in Appendix "A" of this Agreement.
PRICE:
3\.0 The Supplier will sell the Tractor for the total price of $\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (the
"Price"), in Canadian Dollars, including goods and services tax, excise taxes,
duties, social services taxes and all other taxes, charges and assessments
including shipping and handling costs. (provide details in Appendix “B”)
4\.0 If the Supplier is not registered for the purpose of remitting British Columbia
Provincial Sales Tax (in which case the Supplier will pay the tax directly), then the
Supplier will provide the Town, at the time of delivery of the Trucks, with its cheque
in the amount of that tax.
DELIVERY:
5\.0 The Supplier will deliver the Tractor to the Town of Sidney Public Works Yard,
located at 2285 Ocean Avenue, Sidney, B.C.
6\.0\. The Supplier will deliver the Tractor no later than \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 202\_\_ (the
"Delivery Date") and the Supplier acknowledges and agrees that this date is of the
essence of this Agreement.
7\.0 The Supplier will be solely responsible for all risks connected to the Tractor during
delivery, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, risk of theft, loss,
damage, deterioration and all consequential losses to the Tractor and otherwise.
The risk passes to the Town upon actual possession of the Tractor being accepted
by the Town pursuant to Section 8\.
7

TENDER DOCUMENTS CONT'D.
ACCEPTANCE:
8\.0 The Town has 5 days from the date of delivery of the Tractor to inspect the Tractor.
The Town will not be required to accept the Tractor if:
(a) the serial number on the Tractor does not match the one shown on the
documentation for the Tractor.
(b) the Tractor does not pass the commercial vehicle inspection required by the
Province of British Columbia prior to vehicle registration.
(c) the Tractor is not fit for the purpose for which it is intended; or
(d) the Tractor is not of merchantable quality.
The Town will communicate its acceptance of the Tractor by written notice to the
Supplier, and the date on which that notice is deemed delivered pursuant to
Section 25 (that date being the "Acceptance Date").
PASSING OF TITLE:
9\.0\. Title to the Tractor passes to the Town on the Acceptance Date.
PAYMENT:
10\.0 The Town shall pay the full contracted price, no later than 30 days after the
Acceptance Date. An invoice shall not be rendered by the Supplier prior to the
delivery of the Tractor to the destination specified in Section 5\.
CLEAR TITLE:
11\.0 The Supplier shall sell the Tractor free and clear of all competing property interests
or claims and all liens, charges, and encumbrances, whether registered,
unregistered, or possessory. The Supplier hereby represents and warrants to the
Town that the Tractor shall be free and clear of all liens, charges, and
encumbrances.
DOCUMENTATION:
12\.0 The Supplier shall deliver with the Tractor all warranties, manuals, instructions and
other information provided by the manufacturer.
13\.0 The Supplier shall deliver with the Tractor all signed documentation necessary for
the Town to transfer title to the Tractor and register them as commercial motor
vehicles in British Columbia, including a transfer document, statement of origin and
proof of payment of British Columbia social service tax.
8

TENDER DOCUMENTS CONT'D.
SUPPORT:
14\.0 The Supplier shall provide customer support services to the Town.
RIGHTS OF BUYER:
15\.0 Any rights given to the Town in this Agreement are in addition to those granted by
the British Columbia Sales of Goods Act and all other legislation governing the
sale of personal property.
MANUFACTURER'S WARRANTY:
16\.0 The Supplier acknowledges that nothing in the Manufacturer's Warranty limits the
Supplier's liability and obligation under this Agreement or as provided in Section
15\.
DELAY IN DELIVERY:
17\.0 If the Supplier does not deliver the Tractor on or before the Delivery Date, the Town
may terminate this Agreement by giving written notice of termination, which is
effective as soon as it is given to the Supplier and the Supplier will be liable for all
direct and indirect consequences of that default.
TENDER DOCUMENTS:
18\.0 The Supplier and the Town acknowledge and agree that the terms and conditions
of the Tender Documents are incorporated into this Agreement and the Supplier
acknowledges receiving all addendums to the Tender Documents which the Town
may have issued.
NO COLLUSION:
19\.0 The Supplier represents and warrants to the Town that it has not colluded,
conspired or consulted or acted in conjunction with any other Tenderer in the
preparation or submission of its Tender.
INTERPRETATION:
20\.0 Wherever the singular or masculine or neuter is used in this Agreement, the same
shall be construed as meaning the plural, the feminine or body corporate where
the context or the parties thereto so require.
9

TENDER DOCUMENTS CONT'D.
CAPTIONS:
21\.0 The captions appearing in this Agreement have been inserted for reference and
as a matter of convenience and in no way define, limit or enlarge the scope or
meaning of this Agreement or any provision thereof.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAWS:
22\.0 The Supplier shall comply fully with all laws, bylaws, regulations and orders which
apply to its supply and delivery of the Tractor.
WAIVER:
23\.0 Waiver of any default by either party shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any
subsequent default.
ENUREMENT:
24\.0 This Agreement shall enure to the benefit of and be binding on the parties hereto
and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
NOTICE:
25\.0 Any notice, document or communication required or permitted to be given
hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to be satisfactory if and deemed
to have occurred when:
(a) sent electronically or when personally delivered, on the date of service; or
(b) mailed by prepaid registered mail, on the date received or on the sixth day
after receipt of mailing by any Canadian post office, whichever is the earlier,
so long as the notice is mailed to the party at the address provided herein
or to whatever address the parties from time to time in writing agree to.
MODIFICATION:
26\.0 This Agreement may not be modified except by an agreement in writing.
10

TENDER DOCUMENTS CONT'D.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of
the day of 2024\.
}
}
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ }
Authorized Signatory }
}
}
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ }
Authorized Signatory }
}
}
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ }
Mayor }
}
}
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ }
Corporate Officer
END OF TENDER DOCUMENTS
11

APPENDIX “A”
CONTRACT NO. 2024\-009
SPECIFICATION FOR
2024 MODEL COMPACT TRACTOR
To supply one new 2024 Model Compact Tractor, in accordance with the following
specifications and equipment for the Town of Sidney.
Insert detailed specifications of your
proposed vehicle in blank spaces
SPECIFICATIONS
below based on the requirements in
the left column.
Compact Tractor State Make \& Model
Diesel Engine 35\-50 HP. State:
Transmission \- Hydrostatic
4 Wheel drive (full time or on demand) State:
Turf Tires state dimensions front and rear:
3 Point hitch with implement Hydraulics
PTO \- RPM \& HP State:
Front Loader bucket attachment State volume
capacity:
Option 4 in 1loader bucket state cost extra
differential from standard bucket:
Weight approx. 2600 lbs. State:
Grill protection
ROPS with Canopy
3 sets of keys/fobs
Warranty State:
State Actual Delivery Date
Total Price, Including All Applicable Taxes,
Shipping, Handling and Delivery Charges,
Duties, Fees and Assessments. $\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
12

Option
Trade in of a 2007 John Deere 3520 4WD tractor
approximately 3500 hours c/w front end loader
bucket and 72” PTO driven rear 3 point hitch deck
mower attachment
$\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
WARRANTY:
New Vehicle Warranty must state basic coverage including coverage period and type of
coverage, including but not limited to, kilometers, defects, repairs, replacements and/or
adjustments.
END OF SPECIFICATIONS
13

APPENDIX “ B” – PRICE FORM
Two (2\) 2024 MODEL MEDIUM DUTY CAB AND CHASSIS TRUCKS
CAB \& CHASSIS DESCRIPTION
Make:
Model:
Year:
ITEM 1 PRICE
Price (before trade if applicable):
Environmental Levies:
GST:
PST:
Delivery: (F.O.B to 2285 Ocean
Avenue, Sidney BC)
Other: (Specify)
TOTAL COST:
TRADE\-IN (OPTIONAL) – 2007 John Deere 3520 4WD tractor c/w front end loader
and 72” PTO driven deck mower attachment approx. (3500 hours)
Less Trade:
FINAL COST:
DELIVERY
State delivery time and/or date after
order.
Dealership \& Signature
Name:
Address:
Telephone: Fax:
Signature: Printed Name:
E\-Mail:
Date:
14

15

