CITY OF LANGFORD
CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE \#6 (EARTHWORKS AND
CIVIL)
TENDER DOCUMENTS
McElhanney File: 2241\-22050\-02
September 2024

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 1 OF 1
CITY OF LANGFORD TABLE OF CONTENTS SEPTEMBER 2024
Invitation to Tenderers
Instructions to Tenderers – Part I
Instructions to Tenderers – Part II (Separate Cover, MMCD)
Form of Tender
Appendix 1 – Schedule of Quantities and Prices
Appendix 2 – Construction Schedule
Appendix 3 – Experience of Superintendent
Appendix 4 – Comparable Work Experience
Appendix 5 – Subcontractors
Form of Agreement
Schedule 1 – Schedule of Contract Documents
Schedule 2 – List of Contract Drawings
General Conditions (Separate Cover, MMCD)
Supplementary General Conditions
Specifications (Separate Cover, MMCD)
Standard Detail Drawings (Separate Cover, MMCD)
Supplementary Specifications
Supplementary Specifications
Separate Cover \- City of Langford Bylaw 1000, Schedule 11

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6 INVITATION TO TENDERERS
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 1 OF 1
CITY OF LANGFORD INVITATION TO TENDERERS SEPTEMBER 2024
City of Langford
Owner:
( NAME OF OWNER )
Centre Mountain Residential Work Package \#2 – Phase 2 and Work Package
Contract: 6 (Earthworks and Civil)
( TITLE OF CONTRACT )
2241\-22050\-02
Reference No.
( OWNER’S CONTRACT REFERENCE NO. )
The Owner invites tenders
for: Earthworks, gravel road, and water works construction.
Digital (PDF) copies of the
Contract Documents are
available for no charge: Through BC Bid website. No paper copies will be provided.
Tenders are scheduled to
close:
Tender Closing Time:
2:00 pm local time
October 9, 2024
Tender Closing Date:
2nd Floor, 877 Goldstream Avenue
Address:
Victoria, BC V9B 2X8
Documents to be dropped off to the Engineering
front desk. Go to the 2nd floor door and ring the
doorbell to deliver. Engineering front desk (250\-474\-
0068\). Faxed submissions will not be accepted.
( ADDRESS WHERE TENDERS MUST BE SUBMITTED )
NAME OF OWNER’S Nathan Dunlop, P.Eng.
REPRESENTATIVE
250\-370\-9221
( PHONE )

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
IT – PART I
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS PART I TABLE OF CONTENTS IT 1 OF 2
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
1\.0 Introduction ........................................................ ………………………………………IT \- 1
2\.0 Tender Documents ............................................ ………………………………………IT \- 1
3\.0 Submission of Tenders ......................................................... ………………………IT \- 2
4\.0 Supplemental Instructions to Tenderers…………………… ...... ……………………IT \- 3

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
IT – PART I
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS PART I TABLE OF CONTENTS IT 2 OF 2
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
IT – PART I
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS PART I IT 1 OF 4
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
(FOR USE WHEN UNIT PRICES FORM THE BASIS OF PAYMENT TO BE USED ONLY WITH THE GENERAL CONDITIONS AND OTHER STANDARD
DOCUMENTS OF THE UNIT PRICE MASTER MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS.)
(TO BE READ WITH “INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS \- PART II”
CONTAINED IN THE EDITION OF THE PUBLICATION
“MASTER MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS” SPECIFIED IN ARTICLE 2\.2 BELOW)
Owner: City of Langford
( NAME OF OWNER )
Centre Mountain Residential Work Package \#2 – Phase 2 and Work Package
Contract: \#6 (Earthworks and Civil)
( TITLE OF CONTRACT )
Reference No. 2241\-22050\-02
( OWNER’S CONTRACT REFERENCE NO. )
1\.0 Introduction 1\.1 These Instructions apply to and govern the preparation of tenders
for this Contract. The Contract is generally for the following work:
Earthworks, temporary road, overhead power and water works
construction.
1\.2 Direct all inquiries regarding the Contract, to:
McElhanney Ltd.
Nathan Dunlop, P. Eng
( NAME AND POSITION OF INDIVIDUAL WHO WILL ANSWER INQUIRIES)
\#500\-3960 Quadra Street
Address:
Victoria, BC, V8X 4A3
250 \- 370 \- 9221
Phone:
ndunlop@mcelhanney.com
E\-mail:
2\.0 Tender 2\.1 The tender documents which a tenderer should review to prepare a
Documents tender consist of all of the Contract Documents listed in Schedule 1
entitled “Schedule of Contract Documents”. Schedule 1 is attached
to the Agreement which is included as part of the tender package.
The Contract Documents include the drawings listed in Schedule 2
to the Agreement, entitled “List of Contract Drawings”.

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
IT – PART I
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS PART I IT 2 OF 4
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
2\.2 A portion of the Contract Documents are included by reference.
Copies of these documents have not been included with the tender
package. These documents are the Instructions to Tenderers \- Part
II, General Conditions, Specifications and Standard Detail Drawings.
They are those contained in the publication entitled “Master
Municipal Construction Documents \- General Conditions,
Specifications and Standard Detail Drawings”. Refer to Schedule 1
to the Agreement or, if not specified in Schedule 1, then the
applicable edition shall be the most recent edition as of the date of
the Tender Closing Date. All sections of this publication are by
reference included in the Contract Documents.
2\.3 Any additional information made available to tenderers prior to the
Tender Closing Time by the Owner or representative of the Owner,
such as geotechnical reports or as\-built plans, which is not expressly
included in Schedule 1 or Schedule 2 to the Agreement, is not
included in the Contract Documents. Such additional information is
made available only for the assistance of tenderers who must make
their own judgment about its reliability, accuracy, completeness and
relevance to the Contract, and neither the Owner nor any
representative of the Owner gives any guarantee or representation
that the additional information is reliable, accurate, complete or
relevant.
3\.0 Submission of 3\.1 Tenders must be submitted in a sealed envelope, marked on the
Tenders outside with the above Contract Title and Reference No., and must
be received by the office of:
Katelyn Balzer, P.Eng., Director of Engineering and Public Works
(TITLE OF POSITION)
on or before:
Tender Closing Time:
2:00 pm local time
October 9, 2024
Tender Closing Date:
at
2nd Floor, 877 Goldstream Avenue
Address:
Victoria BC, V9B 2X8
Documents to be dropped off to the Engineering front desk.
Go to the 2nd floor door and ring the doorbell to deliver.
Engineering front desk (250\-474\-0068\). Faxed submissions
will not be accepted.
3\.2 Late tenders will not be accepted or considered and will be returned
unopened.

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
IT – PART I
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS PART I IT 3 OF 4
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
4\.0 Supplemental 4\.1 Freedom of Information: The Owner is subject to the provisions of the
Instructions to Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act. As a result, while
Tenderers Section 21 of the Act does offer some protection for third party business
interests, the Owner cannot guarantee that any information provided to the
Owner can be held in confidence.
4\.2 Tender Briefing: A MANDATORY tender briefing has been scheduled
for September 25, 2024 at 1:30 PM at the intersection of Happy Valley
Road and Centre Mountain Terrace.
4\.3 Funding: Proceeding with an award of this tender may be subject to
available funding.
4\.4 Schedule: Time is of the essence for this project and Contractor
schedule will be considered. See also critical dates in Appendix 2 of
the Form of Tender.
The project schedule must be updated and submitted for approval by
the Contract Administrator, as part of the progress draw request each
month. Failure to submit this will delay payment.
4\.5 Facsimile: Faxed submissions, amendments or revocations will not be
accepted.
4\.6 Inquiries: All tenderer questions must be received at least 5 business days
prior to the closing time and date.
4\.7 Notice of Project: The selected Contractor shall submit to WorkSafe BC
a completed Notice of Project, providing a copy of same to the Owner.
4\.8 Long Weekends: Restrictions on work over long weekends are included in
supplementary specification 01 55 00 1\.4 Traffic Control.
4\.9 Superintendent: The Owner reserves the right to object to the
Superintendent listed in the tender. If the Owner objects to the
Superintendent for any reason, then the Owner will permit a tenderer to,
within 5 days, propose a substitute Superintendent acceptable to the Owner
provided that there is no resulting adjustment in the Tender Price, or the
completion date set out in paragraph 2\.2 of the Form of Tender. A tenderer
will not be required to make such a substitution and, if the Owner objects to
a listed Superintendent, the tenderer may, rather than propose a substitute
Superintendent, consider its tender rejected by the Owner and by written
notice withdraw its tender. The Owner shall, in that event, return the
tenderer’s bid security.
The Owner also reserves the right to require a new Superintendent at any
time throughout the duration of construction should there be reason for
cause.
4\.10 Work within or near Riparian area: Work in or near Wetland 6 is to occur
between June 15 and September 15 or during dry conditions. The
Contractor’s Environmental monitoring by a Qualified Environmental
Professional (QEP) is to occur. Written reports of the monitoring are to be
provided to the Contract Administrator by the QEP on a weekly basis at a
minimum or greater frequency as determined by the Contract Administrator.
4\.11 Construction Traffic Management Plan and Ongoing Coordination:
Submit to the Contract Administrator, prior to commencement of
construction, a construction traffic management plan for review and
acceptance by the Contract Administrator and the Owner.
Be aware of the following:
\-Coordination and access through the active construction sites east of this
project (Work Package 1 and Work Package 2 Phase 1\) will be provided.
\-No access will be permitted through the Centre Mountain Business Park
site (Work Package 4\).
\-Coordination and access through this Project Site for work to be completed

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
IT – PART I
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS PART I IT 4 OF 4
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
by other’s will also be required. Required site access will include
construction of the water pump station, water reservoir, lot grading, material
supply, pond, overhead power, etc. For additional information, refer to
Appendix 2 – Preliminary Construction Schedule.
The Traffic Management Plan is to specifically outline how this coordination
and access will occur.
It is expected that the ongoing communications will be maintained by all
Contractors working on the Centre Mountain development throughout the
duration of construction to minimize delays and costs. No costs will be paid
for providing and using access through adjacent construction sites.
4\.12 Construction Access: All construction access will be through Work
Package 1 and Work Package 2 Phase 1, off Happy Valley Road.
4\.13 Material Supplied by Others: Blast rock fill will be provided to the
Contractor to be utilized as embankment fill material. This material is to be
utilized in addition to the suitable fill material produced by the rock removal
and common excavation. The blast rock fill stockpile will be provided at the
location indicated on the drawings. The material will be in accordance with
the Geotechnical Memorandum from Ryzuk Geotechnical dated July 5,
2024\.
Contractor to provide the volume of material to be supplied by others and
indicate this volume on the contractor’s monthly schedule.

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 FORM OF TENDER
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 1 OF 4
CITY OF LANGFORD FORM OF TENDER SEPTEMBER 2024
( FOR USE WHEN UNIT PRICES FORM THE BASIS OF PAYMENT \- TO BE USED ONLY WITH THE GENERAL CONDITIONS AND OTHER STANDARD DOCUMENTS
OF THE UNIT PRICE MASTER MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. )
CITY OF LANGFORD
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(NAME OF OWNER)
Contract: CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND WORK
PACKAGE \#6 (EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL)
(TITLE OF CONTRACT)
Reference No. 2241\-22050\-02
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(OWNER’S CONTRACT REFERENCE NO.)
TO OWNER:

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 FORM OF TENDER
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 2 OF 4
CITY OF LANGFORD FORM OF TENDER SEPTEMBER 2024
1 WE, THE UNDERSIGNED:
1\.1 have received and carefully reviewed all of the Contract
Documents, including the Instructions to Tenderers, the specified
edition of the “Master Municipal Construction Documents \-
General Conditions, Specifications and Standard Detail Drawings”
and the following Addenda:
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_;
(ADDENDA, IF ANY)
1\.2 have full knowledge of the Place of the Work, and the Work
required; and
1\.3 have complied with the Instructions to Tenderers; and
2 ACCORDINGLY WE HEREBY OFFER:
2\.1 to perform and complete all of the Work and to provide all the
labour, equipment and material all as set out in the Contract
Documents, in strict compliance with the Contract Documents;
and
2\.2 to achieve Substantial Performance of the Work on or before
December 15, 2025; and
(WORK DURATION OR DATE)
2\.3 to do the Work for the price, which is the sum of the products of
the actual quantities incorporated into the Work and the
appropriate unit prices set out in Appendix 1, the “Schedule of
Quantities and Prices”, plus any lump sums or specific prices and
adjustment amounts as provided by the Contract Documents. For
the purposes of tender comparison, our offer is to complete the
Work for the “Tender Price” as set out on Appendix 1 of this
Form of Tender. Our Tender Price is based on the estimated
quantities listed in the Schedule of Quantities and Prices, and
excludes GST.
3 WE CONFIRM:
3\.1 that we understand and agree that the quantities as listed in the
Schedule of Quantities and Prices are estimated, and that the actual
quantities will vary.
4 WE CONFIRM:
4\.1 that the following appendices are attached to and form a part of this
tender:
4\.1\.1 the appendices as required by paragraph 5\.3 of the
Instructions to Tenderers \- Part II; and

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 FORM OF TENDER
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 3 OF 4
CITY OF LANGFORD FORM OF TENDER SEPTEMBER 2024
4\.1\.2 the Bid Security as required by paragraph 5\.2 of the
Instructions to Tenderers \- Part II.
5 WE AGREE:
5\.1 that this tender will be irrevocable and open for acceptance by the
Owner for a period of 60 calendar days from the day following the
Tender Closing Date and Time, even if the tender of another
tenderer is accepted by the Owner. If within this period, the Owner
delivers a written notice (“Notice of Award”) by which the Owner
accepts our tender we will:
5\.1\.1 within 15 Days of receipt of the written Notice of Award
deliver to the Owner:
a) a Performance Bond and a Labour and Material Payment
Bond, each in the amount of 50% of the Contract Price, covering
the performance of the Work including the Contractor’s obligations
during the Maintenance Period, issued by a surety licensed to carry
on the business of suretyship in the province of British Columbia,
and in a form acceptable to the Owner;
b) a Construction Schedule, as provided by GC 4\.6\.1;
c) a “clearance letter” indicating that the tenderer is in WCB
compliance; and
d) a copy of the insurance policies as specified in GC 24
indicating that all such insurance coverage is in place and;
e) documents as detailed in the Instructions to Tenderers –
Part 1 and;
5\.1\.2 within 2 Days of receipt of written “Notice to Proceed”, or
longer time as may be otherwise specified in the Notice to Proceed,
commence the Work; and
5\.1\.3 sign the Contract Documents as required by GC 2\.1\.2\.

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 FORM OF TENDER
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 4 OF 4
CITY OF LANGFORD FORM OF TENDER SEPTEMBER 2024
6 WE AGREE:
6\.1 that, if we receive written Notice of Award of this Contract and,
contrary to paragraph 5 of this Form of Tender, we:
6\.1\.1 fail or refuse to deliver the documents as specified by
paragraph 5\.1\.1 of this Form of Tender; or
6\.1\.2 fail or refuse to commence the Work as required by the
Notice to Proceed,
then such failure or refusal will be deemed to be a refusal by us to
enter into the Contract and the Owner may, on written notice to us,
award the Contract to another party. We further agree that, as full
compensation on account of damages suffered by the Owner
because of such failure or refusal, the Bid Security shall be forfeited
to the Owner, in an amount equal to the lesser of:
6\.1\.3 the face value of the Bid Security; and
6\.1\.4 the amount by which our Tender Price is less than the
amount for which the Owner contracts with another party to
perform the Work.
7 OUR ADDRESS is as follows:
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Phone: \_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_ \- \_\_\_\_\_
Attention: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
This Tender is executed this \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 20 \_\_\_\_.
Contractor:
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(FULL LEGAL NAME OF CORPORATION, PARTNERSHIP OR INDIVIDUAL)
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(AUTHORIZED SIGNATORY)
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(AUTHORIZED SIGNATORY)

THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

FORM OF TENDER
APPENDIX 1 – SCHEDULE OF QUANTITIES AND PRICES

CENTER MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6 APPENDIX 1
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] SCHEDULE OF QUANTITIES AND PRICES PAGE 2 OF 6
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
Form of Tender \- Appendix 1
SCHEDULE OF QUANTITIES AND PRICES
(See paragraph 5\.3\.1 of the Instructions to Tenderers \- Part II)
(All prices and Quotations including the Contract Price shall include all Taxes, but shall not include GST.)
Any work called for in these Contract Documents, shown on the plans, or which is necessary for the
completion of the Work called for in these Contract Documents and which is not specifically listed as a
separate payment item in this Appendix shall be deemed incidental to the performance of the Work and to the
general purpose of the Contract; no separate payment will be made on account of any such Work, but the
costs of any such incidental Work shall be included in the Unit and Lump Sum Prices.
Summary Sheet
Division 01: General Requirements $
Division 31: Earthworks $
Division 32: Roads and Site Improvements $
Division 33: Utilities $
Optional Work: $
TOTAL TENDER PRICE $
GST (5%) $
TENDER PRICE plus GST $
Tenderer’s Initials

CENTER MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6 APPENDIX 1
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] SCHEDULE OF QUANTITIES AND PRICES PAGE 3 OF 6
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
DIV 01 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Item Section Specification Title Unit Quantity Unit Price Amount
No.
01 10 00 SS Quality Control Testing
1\.01 1\.1 Quality Control Testing Lump Sum 1
01 10 00 SS Survey
Layout Survey, Quantity Survey, Volume Calculations, and
1\.02 1\.2 Lump Sum 1
Record Survey and red\-line record drawings
01 52 01 Temporary Structures
1\.03 1\.6\.1 Site Office Lump Sum 1
1\.04 1\.6\.2 SS Mobilization \& Demobilization Lump Sum 1
01 55 00 Traffic Control, Vehicle Access and Parking
Preparation of Traffic Control Plan, Construction Access and
1\.05 1\.5\.1 SS Lump Sum 1
Execution of Plan
01 57 01 Environmental Protection
Environmental Protection \[QEP effort] and preparation of
1\.06 1\.6\.2 SS Lump Sum 1
Environmental Protection Plan
Sub\-Total $
DIV 31 EARTHWORKS
Item
Section Specification Title Unit Quantity Unit Price Amount
No.
31 23 17 Rock Removal
Cubic
31\.01 1\.6\.3 SS Rock Removal 50,000
Metre
31 24 13 Roadway Excavation, Embankment and Compaction
Cubic
31\.02 1\.8\.15 SS Common Excavation 20,000
Metre
Cubic
31\.03 1\.8\.7 SS Embankment fill 100,000
Metre
Cubic
31\.04 1\.8\.14 SS Unsuitable material disposal 500
Metre
Sub\-Total $
Tenderer’s Initials

CENTER MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6 APPENDIX 1
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] SCHEDULE OF QUANTITIES AND PRICES PAGE 4 OF 6
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
DIV 32 ROADS AND SITE IMPROVEMENTS
Item
Section Specification Title Unit Quantity Unit Price Amount
No.
32 11 16\.1 Granular Sub\-Base
Square
32\.01 1\.4\.6 SS Select Granular Sub\-Base \- 200mm Thickness 7,900
Metres
32 11 23 Granular Base
Square
32\.02 1\.4\.5 SS Select Granular Base \- 100mm Thickness 7,900
Metres
Sub\-Total $
DIV 33 UTILITIES
Item
Section Specification Title Unit Quantity Unit Price Amount
No.
33 01 30\.1 CCTV Inspection of Pipelines
Lineal
33\.01 1\.6\.2 CCTV Pipeline Inspection \- Sanitary Mains 320
Metre
Lineal
33\.02 1\.6\.2 CCTV Pipeline Inspection \- Drain Mains 265
Metre
33 11 01 Watermains
1\.8\.1
Lineal
33\.03 1\.8\.2 Watermain \- 300mm Ø 903
Metres
1\.8\.2 SS
1\.8\.1
Lineal
33\.04 1\.8\.2 Watermain \- 350mm Ø 1190
Metres
1\.8\.2 SS
33\.05 1\.8\.3 Gate valve \- 150mm Ø Each 3
33\.06 1\.8\.3 Gate valve \- 300mm Ø Each 6
33\.07 1\.8\.3 Gate valve \- 350mm Ø Each 10
33\.08 1\.8\.3 Bends (all degrees) \- 300mm Ø Each 4
33\.09 1\.8\.3 Bends (all degrees) \- 350mm Ø Each 18
33\.10 1\.8\.3 Tee (all sizes) Each 9
33\.11 1\.8\.3 Cross (all sizes) Each 1
1\.8\.5
33\.12 Air\-Valve Assembly (all sizes) Each 3
1\.8\.6
33\.13 1\.8\.14 SS Flush\-Valve Assembly \- 300mm Ø Each 0
Tenderer’s Initials

CENTER MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6 APPENDIX 1
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] SCHEDULE OF QUANTITIES AND PRICES PAGE 5 OF 6
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
33\.14 1\.8\.14 SS Flush\-Valve Assembly \- 350mm Ø Each 1
33\.15 1\.8\.15 SS Trench Dams as per CRD Standard drawing 4\.11 Each 22
33\.16 1\.8\.16 SS Hydrant Assembly – complete unit, c/w 150 dia valve at tee Each 3
33 30 01 Sanitary Sewers
1\.6\.1 Lineal
33\.17 Pipe – 200 mm Ø 180
1\.6\.2 SS Metres
1\.6\.1 Lineal
33\.18 Pipe – 250 mm Ø 137
1\.6\.2 SS Metres
33 40 01 Storm Sewers
1\.6\.1 Lineal
33\.19 Pipe – 300mm Ø 2
1\.6\.2 SS Metres
1\.6\.1 Lineal
33\.20 Pipe – 450mm Ø 222
1\.6\.2 SS Metres
1\.6\.1 Lineal
33\.21 Pipe – 525mm Ø 33
1\.6\.2 SS Metres
1\.6\.1 Lineal
33\.22 Pipe – 675mm Ø (carrier pipe including spacers) 8
1\.6\.2 SS Metres
Catchbasin leads \- 150mm Ø Lineal
31\.23 1\.6\.5 4
(PVC, but DI where depth of cover less than 750 mm) Metre
33 44 01 Manholes and Catchbasins
1\.5\.1
31\.24 Sanitary Manhole \- 1200 Ø Each 4
1\.5\.1\.1 SS
1\.5\.1
31\.25 Sanitary Manhole \- 1500 Ø Each 1
1\.5\.1\.1 SS
1\.5\.1
31\.26 Storm Manhole \- 1200 Ø Each 1
1\.5\.1 SS
1\.5\.1
31\.27 Storm Manhole \- 1500 Ø Each 2
1\.5\.1 SS
Sub\-Total $
Tenderer’s Initials

CENTER MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6 APPENDIX 1
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] SCHEDULE OF QUANTITIES AND PRICES PAGE 6 OF 6
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
OPTIONAL WORK
(included in Tender Price)
This section forms part of the Contract Documents and is to be read, interpreted and coordinated with all other parts.
Optional items quoted on will be reviewed and accepted or rejected at the Owner’s option following contract award.
Accepted optional items prices will be identified in the construction agreement.
Coordinate related work and modify surrounding work to integrate the Work of each optional item. Prices quoted
should not include GST.
Item
Section Specification Title Unit Quantity Unit Price Amount
No.
33 11 01 Watermains
1\.8\.1
Lineal
33\.29 1\.8\.2 Watermain \- 250mm Ø 418
1\.8\.2 SS
Metres
33\.30 1\.8\.3 Gate valve \- 250mm Ø Each 15
33\.31 1\.8\.3 Bends (all degrees) \- 250mm Ø Each 3
33\.32 1\.8\.3 Tee (all sizes) Each 6
33\.33 1\.8\.4 SS Service Connection \- 19 mm Ø Each 6
33\.34 1\.8\.17 SS Service Connection \- 19 mm Ø Each 39
31\.35 1\.8\.17 SS Service Connection \- 25 mm Ø Each 2
31\.36 1\.8\.14 SS Flush\-Valve Assembly \- 250mm Ø Each 2
31\.37 1\.8\.16 SS Hydrant Assembly – complete unit, c/w 150 dia valve at tee Each 3
33 30 01 Sanitary Sewers
31\.38 1\.6\.3 SS Sanitary Service connection \- 100mm Ø Each 31
31\.39 1\.6\.3 SS Sanitary Service connection \- 150mm Ø Each 1
33 34 01 Sanitary Forcemains
Lineal
31\.40 1\.6\.3 SS Sanitary forcemain \- 75mm Ø 2
Metres
33 40 01 Storm Sewers
31\.41 1\.6\.3 SS Drainage Service connection \- 100mm Ø Each 24
31\.42 1\.6\.3 SS Drainage Service connection \- 150mm Ø Each 1
Sub\-Total $
Tenderer’s Initials

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 APPENDIX 2 FORM OF TENDER
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PRELIMINARY CONSTRUCTION PAGE 1 OF 1
CITY OF LANGFORD SCHEDULE SEPTEMBER 2024
Contractor to indicate schedule with bar chart indicating major descriptions and using the following
milestone dates or timelines.
MILESTONE DATES / TIME\-LINES:
 Time is of the essence.
 Construction to be substantially complete by December 15, 2025\.
 Contractor to be aware of the following estimated dates:
o Access to be provided and maintained for a separate contractor to construct the water
pump station between November 2024 to December 2025\. Site grading for the pump
station site must be completed prior to February 2025\.
o Access to be provided and maintained for a separate contractor to construct the water
reservoir between May 2025 to December 2025\. Site grading for the reservoir site must
be completed prior to May 2025\.
o Access to be provided and maintained for a separate contractor to blast, load, and haul
blast rock fill to the stockpile location noted on the drawings, between September 2024 to
February 2025\.
o Access to be provided and maintained for a separate contractor to construct the pond in
the location noted on the drawings, between March 2025 to September 2025\.
o Access to be provided and maintained for a separate contractor to install overhead power
poles and wires from the east side of Work Package 2 Phase 2 to the water pump station
site, between October 2025 to December 2025\.
o Work Package 2 Phase 1 construction will be occurring between September 2024 to
December 2025\.
o Work Package 1 construction will be occurring between September 2024 to March 2025\.
o No access is permitted through Work Package 4 (the Centre Mountain Business Park).
 To be in compliance with environmental construction windows.
ACTIVITY
MONTHLY CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Tenderer’s Initials \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 APPENDIX 3 FORM OF TENDER
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] EXPERIENCE OF THE PAGE 1 OF 1
CITY OF LANGFORD SUPERINTENDENT SEPTEMBER 2024
SUPERINTENDENT: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
EXPERIENCE:
Tenderer’s Initials \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 APPENDIX 4 FORM OF TENDER
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] COMPARABLE WORK PAGE 1 OF 1
CITY OF LANGFORD EXPERIENCES SEPTEMBER 2024
COMPARABLE EXPERIENCE:
PROJECT:
DESCRIPTION:
VALUE:
PROJECT:
DESCRIPTION:
VALUE:
PROJECT:
DESCRIPTION:
VALUE:
PROJECT:
DESCRIPTION:
VALUE:
PROJECT:
DESCRIPTION:
VALUE:
Tenderer’s Initials \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 FORM OF TENDER
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] APPENDIX 5 PAGE 1 OF 1
CITY OF LANGFORD SUBCONTRACTORS SEPTEMBER 2024
LIST OF SUBCONTRACTORS:
SUBCONTRACTOR NAME:
CONTACT:
PHONE NUMBER:
SUBCONTRACTOR NAME:
CONTACT:
PHONE NUMBER:
SUBCONTRACTOR NAME:
CONTACT:
PHONE NUMBER:
SUBCONTRACTOR NAME:
CONTACT:
PHONE NUMBER:
SUBCONTRACTOR NAME:
CONTACT:
PHONE NUMBER:
SUBCONTRACTOR NAME:
CONTACT:
PHONE NUMBER:
SUBCONTRACTOR NAME:
CONTACT:
PHONE NUMBER:
Tenderer’s Initials \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 FORM OF AGREEMENT
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 1 OF 7
CITY OF LANGFORD FORM OF AGREEMENT SEPTEMBER 2024
Between Owner and Contractor
( FOR USE WHEN UNIT PRICES FORM THE BASIS OF PAYMENT \- TO BE USED ONLY WITH THE GENERAL CONDITIONS AND OTHER STANDARD DOCUMENTS OF
THE UNIT PRICE MASTER MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. )
THIS AGREEMENT made in duplicate this \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 20\_\_\_.
Contract: CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND WORK
PACKAGE \#6 (EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL)
Reference No. 2241\-22050\-02
BETWEEN:
The CITY OF LANGFORD
(the “Owner”)
AND:
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
( NAME AND OFFICE ADDRESS OF CONTRACTOR )
(the “Contractor”)
The Owner and the Contractor agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 THE WORK \- START/COMPLETION DATES
1\.1 The Contractor will perform all Work and provide all labour, equipment and material and do all
things strictly as required by the Contract Documents.
1\.2 The Contractor will commence the Work in accordance with the Notice to Proceed. The Contractor
will proceed with the Work diligently, will perform the Work generally in accordance with the construction schedules
as required by the Contract Documents and will achieve Substantial Performance of the Work on or before December
15, 2025 subject to the provisions of the Contract Documents for adjustments to the Contract Time.
1\.3 Time shall be of the essence of the Contract.

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 FORM OF AGREEMENT
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 2 OF 7
CITY OF LANGFORD FORM OF AGREEMENT SEPTEMBER 2024
ARTICLE 2 CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
2\.1 The “Contract Documents” consist of the documents listed or referred to in Schedule 1, entitled
“Schedule of Contract Documents”, which is attached and forms a part of this Agreement, and includes any and all
additional and amending documents issued in accordance with the provisions of the Contract Documents. All of the
Contract Documents shall constitute the entire Contract between the Owner and the Contractor.
2\.2 The Contract supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, or agreements, whether written or
oral, and the Contract may be amended only in strict accordance with the provisions of the Contract Documents.
ARTICLE 3 CONTRACT PRICE
3\.1 The price for the Work (“Contract Price”) shall be the sum in Canadian dollars of the following:
3\.1\.1 the product of the actual quantities of the items of Work listed in the Schedule of Quantities
and Prices which are incorporated into or made necessary by the Work and the unit prices listed in
the Schedule of Quantities and Prices; plus
3\.1\.2 all lump sums, if any, as listed in the Schedule of Quantities and Prices, for items relating to
or incorporated into the Work; plus
3\.1\.3 any adjustments, including any payments owing on account of Changes and agreed to Extra
Work, approved in accordance with the provisions of the Contract Documents.
3\.2 The Contract Price shall be the entire compensation owing to the Contractor for the Work and this
compensation shall cover and include all profit and all costs of supervision, labour, material, equipment, overhead,
financing, and all other costs and expenses whatsoever incurred in performing the Work.
ARTICLE 4 PAYMENT
4\.1 Subject to applicable legislation and the provisions of the Contract Documents, the Owner shall
make payments to the Contractor.
4\.2 If the Owner fails to make payments to the Contractor as they become due in accordance with the
terms of the Contract Documents then interest calculated at 2% per annum over the prime commercial lending rate of
the Royal Bank of Canada on such unpaid amounts shall also become due and payable until payment. Such interest
shall be calculated and added to any unpaid amounts monthly.
ARTICLE 5 RIGHTS AND REMEDIES
5\.1 The duties and obligations imposed by the Contract Documents and the rights and remedies
available thereunder shall be in addition to and not a limitation of any duties, obligations, rights and remedies otherwise
imposed or available by law.
5\.2 Except as specifically set out in the Contract Documents, no action or failure to act by the Owner,
Contract Administrator or Contractor shall constitute a waiver of any of the parties’ rights or duties afforded under the
Contract, nor shall any such action or failure to act constitute an approval of or acquiescence in any breach under the
Contract.

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 FORM OF AGREEMENT
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 3 OF 7
CITY OF LANGFORD FORM OF AGREEMENT SEPTEMBER 2024
ARTICLE 6 NOTICES
6\.1 Communications among the Owner, the Contract Administrator and the Contractor, including all
written notices required by the Contract Documents, may be delivered by hand, or by pre\-paid registered mail to the
addresses as set out below:
The Owner:
City of Langford
2nd Floor, 877 Goldstream Avenue
Victoria, BC V9B2X8
Email: kbalzer@langford.ca
Attention: Katelyn Balzer, P.Eng., Director of Engineering and Public Works
The Contractor:
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Email: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Attention: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
The Contract Administrator:
McElhanney
Suite \#500 – 3960 Quadra Street
Victoria, BC V8X 4A3
Email: ndunlop@mcelhanney.com
Attention: Nathan Dunlop, P.Eng.
6\.2 A communication or notice that is addressed as above shall be considered to have been received:
6\.2\.1 immediately upon delivery, if delivered by hand; or
6\.2\.2 immediately upon transmission if sent and received by email; or
6\.2\.3 after 5 Days from date of posting if sent by registered mail.
6\.3 The Owner or the Contractor may, at any time, change its address for notice by giving written notice
to the other at the address then applicable. Similarly, if the Contract Administrator changes its address for notice, then
the Owner will give or cause to be given written notice to the Contractor.
6\.4 The sender of a notice by email assumes all risk that the email will be received properly, and the
provisions of paragraph 12\.5 of the Instructions to Tenderers apply to the sender.

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 FORM OF AGREEMENT
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 4 OF 7
CITY OF LANGFORD FORM OF AGREEMENT SEPTEMBER 2024
ARTICLE 7 GENERAL
7\.1 This Contract shall be construed according to the laws of British Columbia.
7\.2 The Contractor shall not, without the express written consent of the Owner, assign this Contract, or
any portion of this Contract.
7\.3 The headings included in the Contract Documents are for convenience only and do not form part of
this Contract and will not be used to interpret, define or limit the scope or intent of this Contract or any of the
provisions of the Contract Documents.
7\.4 A word in the Contract Documents in the singular includes the plural and, in each case, vice versa.
7\.5 This agreement shall ensure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties and their successors,
executors, administrators, and assigns.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement the day and year first written above.
Contractor:
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(FULL LEGAL NAME OF CORPORATION, PARTNERSHIP OR INDIVIDUAL)
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(AUTHORIZED SIGNATORY)
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(AUTHORIZED SIGNATORY)
Owner:
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(FULL LEGAL NAME OF OWNER)
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(AUTHORIZED SIGNATORY)
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
(AUTHORIZED SIGNATORY)

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 FORM OF AGREEMENT
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 5 OF 7
CITY OF LANGFORD FORM OF AGREEMENT SEPTEMBER 2024
Schedule 1
Schedule of Contract Documents
(INCLUDE IN LIST ALL DOCUMENTS INCLUDING, IF ANY, SUPPLEMENTARY GENERAL CONDITIONS, SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATIONS,
SUPPLEMENTARY STANDARD DETAIL DRAWINGS)
The following is an exact and complete list of the Contract Documents, as referred to in Article 2\.1 of the Agreement.
NOTE: The documents noted below with “\*” are contained in the “Master Municipal Construction Documents \-
General Conditions, Specifications and Standard Detail Drawings”, edition dated 2019\. All sections of this
publication are included in the Contract Documents.
1 Agreement, including all Schedules;
2 Supplementary General Conditions (if any, insert title and edition date);
3 General Conditions\*;
4 Supplementary Specifications (if any, insert title and edition date);
5 Specifications\*;
6 Supplementary Standard Detail Drawings (if any, insert title and edition date);
7 City of Langford Subdivision Bylaw No. 1000;
8 City of Langford Noise Regulation Bylaw No. 2056;
9 Standard Detail Drawings\*;
10 Executed Form of Tender, including all Appendices;
11 Contract Drawings listed in Schedule 2 to the Agreement –“List of Contract Drawings”;
12 Instructions To Tenderers \- Part I;
13 Instructions to Tenderers \- Part II\*;
14 The following Addenda:

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 FORM OF AGREEMENT
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 6 OF 7
CITY OF LANGFORD FORM OF AGREEMENT SEPTEMBER 2024
Schedule 2
List of Contract Drawings
(Complete listing of all drawings, plans and sketches which are to form a part of this Contract, other than Standard Detail Drawings and
Supplementary Standard Detail Drawings.)
TITLE DRAWIN DATE REVISION
G NO. NO.
CIVIL (McElhanney)
WORK PACKAGE 2 PHASE 2
COVER SHEET C000 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
KEY PLAN C100 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
EARTHWORKS PLAN C101 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
ROAD A PLAN \& PROFILE (STA 1\+070 TO 0\+880\) C200 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
ROAD A PLAN \& PROFILE (STA 1\+260 TO 1\+070\) C201 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
ROAD A PLAN \& PROFILE (STA 1\+420 TO 1\+260\) C202 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
ROAD D PLAN \& PROFILE (STA 1\+985 TO 1\+920\) C203 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
ROAD D PLAN \& PROFILE (STA \-0\+020 TO 0\+040 C205 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
TYPICAL SECTIONS AND DETAILS C400 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
BLASTING EXTENTS SECTIONS (STA 0\+900 TO 1\+120\) C500 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
BLASTING EXTENTS SECTIONS (STA 1\+140 TO 1\+360\) C501 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
WORK PACKAGE 6
COVER SHEET C000 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
KEY PLAN C100 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
ROAD D PLAN \& PROFILE (STA 1\+800 TO 1\+920\) C200 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
ROAD D PLAN \& PROFILE (STA 1\+620 TO 1\+800\) C201 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
ROAD D PLAN \& PROFILE (STA 1\+480 TO 1\+620\) C202 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
ROAD D PLAN \& PROFILE (STA 1\+350 TO 1\+480\) C203 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2 AND
WORK PACKAGE 6 FORM OF AGREEMENT
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 7 OF 7
CITY OF LANGFORD FORM OF AGREEMENT SEPTEMBER 2024
ROAD D PLAN \& PROFILE (STA 1\+275 TO 1\+350\) C204 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
ROAD F PLAN \& PROFILE (STA 0\+000 TO 0\+100\)
TYPICAL SECTIONS AND DETAILS C400 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
BLASTING EXTENTS SECTIONS (STA 1\+340 TO 1\+580\) C500 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
BLASTING EXTENTS SECTIONS (STA 1\+640 TO 1\+900\) C501 SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
GEOTECHNICAL (Ryzuk)
GEOTECHNICAL REPORT – PROPOSED PUMP STATION MARCH 22, 2023
AND WATER RESERVOIR
Note: the pump station location has changed from when this report was produced.
GEOTECHNICAL REPORT (RYZUK GEOTECHNICAL) MAY 12, 2023
WORK PACKAGE 2 – PROPOSED CONNECTOR ROAD
CENTRE MOUNTAIN ESTATES – LANGFORD, BC
GEOTECHNICAL FIELD REVIEW – NEW PROPOSED PUMP JULY 16, 2024
STATION LOCATION
GEOTECHNICAL MEMORANDUM – BLAST ROCK FILL JULY 5, 2024
REQUIREMENTS (for material supplied by others)
DOCUMENTS BELOW FOR REFERENCE ONLY
MCELHANNEY DRAWING 2241\-22050\-SK A SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 1
STANTEC DRAWING C1101 – PUMP STATION SITE MARCH 13, 2024
GRADING PLAN AND SECTIONS
STANTEC DRAWING C2101 – RESERVOIR SITE GRADING JANUARY 3, 2024
PLAN
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL AND SEPTEMBER, 2024 1
ENVIRONMENTAL MONTORING REQUIREMENTS FOR
WORKS ASSOCIATED WITH CENTRE MOUNTAIN WORK
PACKAGE 2 PHASE 2 AND WORK PACKAGE 6
ESC AND MONITORING FOR CULVERT INSTALLATION NOVEMBER 2023
AT STREAM 8, STREAM 3 AND RIPARIAN VEGETATION
REMOVAL AT WETLAND 6

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 1 OF 4
CITY OF LANGFORD SUPPLEMENTARY GENERAL CONDITIONS SEPTEMBER 2024
Modifications and Additions to the Master Municipal Construction Documents
The following conditions form part of the Contract and are supplementary to the MMCD General Conditions
and Specifications. In the event of a direct conflict between the MMCD General Conditions and these
Supplementary GC’s the Supplementary GC’s take precedence. Notwithstanding this order of precedence,
in the event of a conflict between or within any of the Contract Documents, the more stringent provisions shall
apply \- with the intent that those which produce the highest quality and performance, shall govern.
SECTION SUB SUPPLEMENTARY GENERAL CONDITIONS
SECTION
GC 1\.0 New 1\.79 “Archaeological Artifacts means any fossils, artifacts,
DEFINITIONS Archaeological coins, articles of value or antiquity, remains, and other
Artifacts things of geological, archaeological or historical
interest or value discovered at the Place of the Work.”
New 1\.80 “Engineer means the Contract Administrator.”
Engineer
New 1\.81 “Utilities is used broadly and includes but is not limited
Utilities to any and all lines, poles, structures, facilities, utilities
for power, cable, TV, telephone, telecommunications,
all sanitary and storm sewers, and all water, oil, gas
and electric services, all steam pipes and services, all
survey monuments, all street lights, traffic lights,
traffic detector loops embedded in pavement,
culverts, rail tracks, whether located above or below
ground, whether visible or invisible, whether man\-
made or natural.”
GC 2\.0 2\.2\.4 Replace Section (1\) with the following:
DOCUMENTS Document Hierarchy
“The Contract Documents shall govern and take
precedence in the following order with the Agreement
taking precedence over all other Contract Documents:
a) Agreement
b) Addenda
c) Supplementary General Conditions
d) General Conditions (MMCD), including all
published supplemental updates
e) Supplementary Specifications
f) City of Langford Bylaw No. 1000
g) Specifications
h) Drawings listed in Schedule 2 to the
Agreement
i) Supplementary Detail Drawings
j) Supplementary Standard Detail Drawings as
per Schedule 11
k) Standard Detail Drawings (MMCD), including
all published supplemental updates
l) Executed Form of Tender
m) Instructions to Tenderers
n) All other Contract Documents.”
GC 2\.0 New 2\.4\.3 “The Contract Drawings shall not be used for the
DOCUMENTS Copies of Contract construction of the Work unless marked “Issued for
Documents Construction” and sealed by a registered professional

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 2 OF 4
CITY OF LANGFORD SUPPLEMENTARY GENERAL CONDITIONS SEPTEMBER 2024
engineer.”
GC 3\.0 3\.3\.5 Amend Clause 3\.3\.5 by adding: “The Contract
CONTRACT Contract Administrator will conduct survey checks of the
ADMINISTRATOR Administration completed work at his/her discretion. The Contractor
will provide a survey assistant, at the Contract
Administrator’s request, for such checks.”
GC 4\.0 4\.6 Amend 4\.6\.2 by deleting: “monthly” and substituting
CONTRACTOR Construction Schedule “monthly or as required by the Contract
Administrator”.
GC 16\.0 16\.4 Delete 16\.4\.1 (2\)
CONTRACTOR’S Termination
RIGHT ON OWNER’S
DEFAULT
GC 18\.0 18\.5 Amend 18\.5\.1 by replacing: “15th Day” to read “30th
PAYMENT Payment Day”.
18\.9 Delete 18\.9\.3 and 18\.9\.4
Waiver of Claims
GC 20\.0 New 20\.4\.2 “The Contractor shall indemnify the Owner, the
LAWS, NOTICES, Environmental Contract Administrator, and their respective
PERMITS AND FEES Laws employees, agents, officers and consultants for any
costs, fines, expenses and penalties that the Owner is
required to pay on account of the Contractor
performing Work in breach of any applicable Federal,
or Provincial or municipal laws, regulations, or
orders.”
GC 22\.0 22\.2 Delete GC 22\.2 and substitute with the following:
INDEMNIFICATION Owner to Indemnify “The Owner shall reimburse the Contractor for costs
incurred by the Contractor that are attributable to a
lack of or defect in title to the Place of the Work.”
GC 24\.0 24\.1 Revise the last sentence of 24\.1\.1 (3\) as follows:
INSURANCE Required Insurance “Coverage to include the Owner, Summit CM
Development Ltd., Corvidae Environmental
Consulting Inc., McElhanney Ltd., and Ryzuk
Geotechnical, J.E. Anderson \& Associates and Site
Power Engineering Consultants to be named as
additional insured.”
SGC 27\.0 New 27\.1\.1 “Any Archaeological Artifacts discovered by the
ARCHAEOLOGICAL Archaeological Contractor shall, as between the Owner and the
ARTIFACTS Artifacts Contractor, be deemed to be the absolute property of
the Owner”.
New 27\.1\.2 “The Contractor shall immediately advise the Contract
Archaeological Administrator of the discovery by the Contractor of
Artifacts any Archaeological Artifacts and take all reasonable
precautions to protect and preserve same”.
SGC 28\.0 New 28\.1 “All MMCD board approved Supplementary’s as listed
APPROVED Approved at www.mmcd.net/ are to be included and in effect for
SUPPLEMENTAL Supplemental this contract as of tender closing date.”
SGC 29\.0 New Instructions to “18\.1 The tenderer is responsible for examining with
ADDITIONAL Tenders – Part II, add appropriate care, the complete tender document
CLAUSE Clause 18\.1, 18\.2, package, and is responsible for informing itself with

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 3 OF 4
CITY OF LANGFORD SUPPLEMENTARY GENERAL CONDITIONS SEPTEMBER 2024
18\.3 respect to conditions that might affect the cost or
performance of the work. All costs and charges in
connection with the tender preparation will be borne
by the tenderers.
18\.2 No after\-claim shall be allowed for any work or
material that may be required for the proper execution
and completion of an awarded Contract.
18\.3 The information contained in the tender
documents is supplied solely as a guideline for
tenderers. The information is not guaranteed or
warranted to be accurate by the Contract
Administrator or Owner.”
SGC 30\.0 New “30\.1 Contractor has examined and carefully
CONTRACTOR’S studied the Contract Documents and has become
REPRESENTATIONS familiar with their terms and has given Owner written
notice of all conflicts, errors, ambiguities, or
discrepancies in the Contract Documents which are
known (or reasonably should have been known) to
Contractor on the date of execution of this Contract,
and the written resolution thereof by Owner is
acceptable to Contractor.
30\.2 Contractor acknowledges that the Contract
Documents convey sufficient understanding for the
proper performance and completion of the Work.
30\.3 Contractor has visited the Site and any other
areas which may pertain to the performance of Work
and has become familiar with the general and local
conditions that may affect the cost or timing of the
performance and completion of the Work.
30\.4 Contractor has reviewed and examined all laws
and regulations which may affect the cost and timing
of the performance and completion of the Work.
30\.5 Contractor acknowledges that the Contractor
assumes all risks associated with conditions at or
related to the Site or the Work.
30\.6 Contractor has studied and become familiar
with the environmental studies, approvals, and
recommendations applicable to the Project or the
Site.
30\.7 Contractor is aware of the work to be
performed by Owner and other contractors in
connection with the Project.
30\.8 Contractor is satisfied that the Work can be
performed and completed in accordance with the
Contract Documents, within the Contract Time and for
the Contract Price.
30\.9 Contractor hereby waives any claim against
Owner which is based on any assertion which is
contrary to the representations and
acknowledgements set forth in this GC 30\.
30\.10 Contractor shall be responsible for employing
such construction practices and other appropriate
measures to minimize the impact of the Work on the

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] PAGE 4 OF 4
CITY OF LANGFORD SUPPLEMENTARY GENERAL CONDITIONS SEPTEMBER 2024
environment and to comply with laws and regulations
pertaining to the environment, the Site and the Project
including all applicable governmental consents.
30\.11 Any engineering and design undertaken by
Contractor or its agents or subcontractors for
performance of the Work (including any access,
diversionary or other temporary works), and any
planning for drilling and blasting required for such
performance, shall be undertaken at the sole risk of
Contractor. Contractor shall provide any plans or
programs for such activities in detail and in advance
to Contract Administrator and any re\-design which
may be necessary or required shall be at the sole cost
and expense of the Contractor.”

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATIONS PAGE 1 OF 7
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATIONS
Add the following Supplementary Specifications (attached at end):
SUB
SECTION SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATION
SECTION
01 10 00SS All
Measurement
and Payment
Revise the following Master Municipal Specifications Platinum Edition:
SUB
SECTION SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATION
SECTION
Add Clause 1\.2\.23\.4: BC Supplement to TAC Design Guide
01 42 00
.1 BC Supplement Figure 710\.C
Reference
Specifications
Add Clause 1\.2\.23\.5 Manual of Standard Traffic Signs and
Pavement Markings
Add Clause 1\.6\.2: "Payment for mobilization and demobilization
shall include all the Contractor costs of mobilization at the beginning
of the project and the cost of demobilization at the end of the
project.
.1 Included in the mobilization are such items as bonding,
insurance, permits, moving personnel, equipment and
materials to the site, setting up temporary facilities and all
preparation for performing the Work.
.2 Included in demobilization are preparation and submission of
record drawings, operation and maintenance manuals, removal
of all personnel, equipment and materials and cleanup of the
Site and the Work.
.3 The lump sum price bid for this work shall be relative to the
01 52 01
1\.6 costs involved but shall not exceed ten percent of the Tender
Temporary
Payment Price.
Structures
.4 Payment shall be made as follows, as approved by the Contract
Administrator:
.1 60% of the lump sum bid will be included in the first
progress payment certificate.
.5 40% of the lump sum bid will be included in the final
progress payment certificate.
.5 The Contract Administrator may at his discretion authorize
partial payment if mobilization or demobilization is not
complete.
The cost of other items specified under General Requirements shall
be considered incidental to the work and separate payment will not
be made for any other items in the General Requirements unless
specifically noted in the Schedule of Quantities and Prices.”
01 55 00 1\.4 Add Clause 1\.4\.14:
Traffic Control, Traffic Control “Provide a detailed Traffic Management Plan (TMP) and drawings
Vehicle Access with dedicated traffic control and pedestrian delineation for safety
and Parking of motorists, pedestrians, and bicycle traffic for all locations where
roadways are affected by construction activities. The TMP shall be

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATIONS PAGE 2 OF 7
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
sealed by a qualified professional engineer and must be approved
by the Contract Administrator and Owner in advance of
implementation. This plan is to be submitted to the Contract
Administrator a minimum of 14 calendar days prior to the
contractor’s desired date of construction commencement. No
construction can take place without the approval of the TMP. The
plan shall be updated and modified as requested by the Contract
Administrator, as the construction project proceeds and traffic
management needs warrant. The TMP is to contain sufficient
details to allow the Contract Administrator and Owner a clear
understanding of how the Contractor will ensure the following will
be achieved, at a minimum:
1\. TMP shall be in prepared in accordance with the BC Ministry of
Transportation and Infrastructure guidelines specified in the
Traffic Management Guidelines for Work on Roadways
Manual, and the 2012 Standard Specifications for Highway
Construction. Table of Contents to include the following:
1\.1\. General Information
1\.2\. Operations and Signage
1\.3\. Users and Access
1\.4\. Traffic Control Drawings
1\.5\. Public Information Plan
1\.6\. Incident Management Plan
1\.7\. Implementation Plan
2\. Diverted travel lanes must be on paved surfaces. Travel
surface will allow for vehicles to move through the construction
zone at an intended speed of 20 km/h.
3\. Minimize stopping traffic in the travel lane. No dumping or off
loading of materials shall be permitted in the travel lane.
Stoppages are permitted for vehicle access to and egress from
the construction zone or for construction vehicles crossing the
travel lane. No delays for full lane closure of more than 1
minute.
4\. Provide a plan of all off\-site and on\-site signage and traffic
control devices for review and acceptance by the Contract
Administrator and the Owner. Update the plan as requested
whenever signage or traffic control device locations are
changed.
5\. Provide access for garbage collection and recycling pick\-up
programs and mail delivery to all residents and businesses.
Provide communication to and coordination with all service
providers as necessary to ensure access as required.
6\. Provide for the BC Transit bus routes. Communicate to and
coordinate with BC Transit as necessary regarding temporary
bus stop locations, transit through the work zone and any other
issues that may arise that require discussion and coordination.
7\. Work shall be in accordance with Langford Noise Bylaws.
8\. The Contractor is required to be off all roadways, and not
impeding traffic in any way past 12:00 noon on any Friday of a
long weekend.
9\. At the discretion of the Contract Administrator, the Contractor
may be requested to modify the TMP to accommodate any
irregularities or excessive congestion of traffic flow. Maximum

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATIONS PAGE 3 OF 7
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
total delays of up to 3 minutes are permitted.
10\. Maintain at least one access to all properties at all times, unless
otherwise authorized by the Contract Administrator or unless
the work is directly in front of a residential driveway. Where
closures of residential driveways are required, provide a hand
delivered letter a minimum of 72 hours prior to construction to
impacted property owner(s). Driveways shall be closed for 72
hours for concrete curing. Daily access shall be provided for
trenching where possible using steel plates.
11\. Facilitate priority access through the work zone for fire trucks
and all other emergency vehicles when they are operating with
emergency lights and sirens active and where possible
otherwise.
12\. Where sidewalks are closed, provide adequate signage
regarding pedestrian detour including signage at closest
pedestrian crossing at each side of the closed section. Where
work directly impacts sidewalk accessibility, “fixed in place”
ramps with a tactile surface are to be provided at either end of
the work area allowing pedestrians to safely negotiate the
grade change between the roadway surface and drop ramps,
curbs, and boulevards. Ramps must be of solid / sound
construction, a minimum of 1\.5m wide, less than 8% grade, and
fixed in place with a traction surface and have a raised barrier
edge a minimum of 35mm high.
13\. Provide plan for on site or off\-site storage of materials and
equipment, location of site trailers and all other storage facilities
(e.g. shipping containers). Use of the road right\-of way or other
public lands will require a Permit to Occupy a Road Allowance.
14\. Coordination and access through the active construction sites
east of this project (Work Package 1 and Work Package 2
Phase 1\) will be required. The TMP is to specifically outline
how this coordination and access will be implemented.
15\. Coordination and access through this Project Site for work to
be completed by other’s will also be required. Required site
access could include construction of the water pump station,
water reservoir, lot grading, material supply, pond, etc. For
additional information, refer to Appendix 2 – Preliminary
Construction Schedule. The TMP is to specifically outline how
this coordination and access will be implemented.
01 55 00 1\.5 Delete Clause 1\.5\.1 and Replace With:
Traffic Control, Payment Payment for all work required to produce an approved TMP,
Vehicle Access including modifications as required, to these specifications and
and Parking costs incurred specific to execution of the plan shall be (paid in
equal installments for the project duration) Lump Sum bid item on
the Schedule of Quantities and Prices.
It is expected that the ongoing communications will be maintained
by all contractor’s working on the Centre Mountain development
throughout the duration of construction to minimize delays and
costs. No costs will be paid for providing and using access through
adjacent construction sites.

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATIONS PAGE 4 OF 7
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
01 57 01 1\.2 Add Clause 1\.2\.1\.4: “All catch basin, silt trap, and lawn basin inlet
Environmental Temporary castings that may receive runoff from the work area to be covered
Protection Erosion and with filter cloth. Ensure no silt or sediment enters the storm
Sediment drainage system while removing the silt cloth once construction is
Controls complete.”
1\.4 Add Clause 1\.4\.4: “Disposal of Waste:
Environmental 1\. Do not bury rubbish and waste materials on site.
Protection 2\. Do not dispose of waste or volatile materials such as
mineral spirits, oil or point thinner into waterways, storm or
sanitary sewers.
3\. Dispose of waste materials off property, in accordance with
applicable provincial and/or federal regulations.
4\. Removal and disposal of Asbestos Cement pipe shall
follow current WCB requirements.”
1\.6 Add Clause 1\.6\.2: “Payment for Environmental Protection and
Measurement preparation of the Environmental Protection Plan shall be lump
and Payment sum (paid in equal installments for the project duration) and
includes all work to prepare, deliver and enact an Environmental
Management Plan prepared by a qualified registered professional
that contains, at minimum, the following components: tree
protection plan; sensitive ecosystem management plan; sediment
and erosion control plan; dust control, invasive species
management plan; waste disposal; storage areas and laydown
area management plan; equipment idling control plan; hazardous
material control and spill response plan. The plan and
implementation must also meet the requirements of the ‘Erosion
and Sediment Control and Environmental Monitoring
Requirements for works associated with Centre Mountain Work
Package 2 Phase 2 and Work Package 6’ dated September 2024
and ‘ESC and Monitoring for Culvert Installation at Stream 8,
Stream 3 and Riparian Vegetation Removal at Wetland 6’ dated
November 2023\. Both documents are included as a Reference
Document. Weekly reports from a QEP are to be completed and
submitted to the Contract Administrator.”
31 23 17 Rock 1\.6\.3 Delete Clause 1\.6\.3 and Replace With: “Payment for rock removal
Removal Measurement by blasting includes all necessary drilling, vibration monitoring and
and Payment control, and all warning, permitting, and protective measures
required to ensure safe blasting. This payment item includes all
blasting required for bulk and trench rock removal. No separate
payment will be made if the rock face blasting slope changes or if
rock scraping is required. Blasting shall also meet the requirements
of the City of Langford Bylaw 100 – Schedule 3\.
Prior to blasting, the exposed rock surface is to be surveyed by the
Contractor and provided to the Contract Administrator. The
Contract Administrator is to review the surface and accept it prior to
any blasting beginning. Measurement will be cross section to neat
line trench limits.
The maximum rock size produced by blasting is not to exceed a
600mm nominal diameter. For payment purposes, trench rock and
mass rock are considered the same.
Note, measurement for this item is not subject to MMCD quantity
Variance Threshold Percentage limits (GC 1\.76\).”

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATIONS PAGE 5 OF 7
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
31 24 13 1\.8 Delete Clause 1\.8\.7 and Replace With: “Payment for
Roadway Measurement embankment fill will include loading, hauling, placing and
Excavation, and Payment compacting of material, either from Owner supplied material or
Embankment onsite excavation. Quantity will be based on surveyed volume
and (from excavated subgrade to design subbase). Owner supplied
Compaction material will available in the stockpile location noted on the
drawings.
Note, measurement for Embankment Fill pay item is not subject to
MMCD quantity Variance Threshold Percentage limits (GC 1\.76\).”
Add Clause 1\.8\.14: “Payment for unsuitable material disposal will
include loading, hauling and placing of unsuitable material at the
location noted on the drawings. This item will include the
management and maintenance of the stockpile, the stockpile area
and access to/from the stockpile in accordance with the contractor’s
ESC plan. Measurement will be based on surveyed volume of the
stockpile. Contractor to complete and provide digital topographic
survey to define the stockpile volume.
Note, measurement for Embankment Fill pay item is not subject to
MMCD quantity Variance Threshold Percentage limits (GC 1\.76\).”
Add Clause 1\.8\.15: “Payment for Common Excavation includes
excavation as directed by the Contract Administrator, to the design
subgrade and stripping depths as shown on the Contract Drawings
or at a location provided by the Contract Administrator. Common
excavation will include soils, blasted rock material, gravel and
unsuitable material. Measurement shall be based on volumes
calculated from before and after excavation of the area at sufficient
intervals over the area. Following excavation and prior to blasting,
Contractor to complete and provide digital topographic survey to
define base of excavation. Note, measurement for Common
Excavation pay item is not subject to MMCD quantity Variance
Threshold Percentage limits (GC 1\.76\). All excavation is common
excavation. There is no over\-excavation.”
32 11 16\.1 1\.4 Add Clause 1\.4\.6: “Payment for Granular Subbase for each
Granular Measurement specified thickness will be for the actual area placed.”
Subbase and Payment
32 11 23 1\.4 Add Clause 1\.4\.5: “Payment for Granular Base for each specified
Granular Base Measurement thickness will be for the actual area placed.”
and Payment
33 11 01 1\.8 Clause 1\.8\.2 delete: "disinfection,". Replace with: "disinfection,
Watermains Measurement verification of disinfection".
and Payment
Delete Clause 1\.8\.4 and Replace With: “Payment for service
connection includes all mainline saddles, valves, service pipes and
all related fittings and appurtenances specified and/or shown on
CRD drawing 2\.5\. Payment includes all applicable work described
in 1\.8\.2 of this Section. Measurement for service connections will
be for each complete service installed, with no regard to length of
service pipe installed.”

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATIONS PAGE 6 OF 7
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
Add Clause 1\.8\.14: “Payment for flush\-valve assembly includes
all materials, works and appurtenances shown on CRD Standard
drawing 1\.6 including valve chamber and all other incidental work.
Payment includes all applicable work described in 1\.8\.2 of this
Section.”
Add Clause 1\.8\.15: “Payment for trench dams includes all
materials, works and appurtenances required to complete the
installation as per CRD Engineering standard drawing 4\.11 and all
other incidental work. Locations are to be surveyed and noted on
the redline drawings. 100mm diameter PVC DR28 (5 metres in
length) connection to the future location of the storm main is to be
provided for each trench dam. The trench dams across multiple
water mains are considered one for payment.”
Add Clause 1\.8\.16: “Payment for hydrants includes all materials,
works and appurtenances including all excavation, supply, install
(including thrust blocks), backfilling and compaction, hydrant body,
lateral connection from mainline tee off watermain to hydrant,
restraints, isolation valve at the mainline tee, adjustable valve box,
and all other incidental work as shown on the Contract Drawings
and on CRD Standard drawing 1\.3\.”
Add Clause 1\.8\.17: “Payment for service connection includes
mainline saddle and corporation stop (for future allowance of water
service) as shown on CRD drawing 2\.6\. Payment includes all
applicable work described in 1\.8\.2 of this Section.”
33 30 01 1\.6 Delete Clause 1\.6\.2 and Replace With: “Payment for sanitary
Sanitary Sewer Measurement sewer includes trench excavation, disposal of surplus excavated
and Payment material onsite, supply and installation of all pipe, fittings and
related materials, bedding, imported or native backfill, cleaning and
flushing, testing, supply and install of at grade red painted stake for
stub extents, and all other work and materials necessary to
complete installation as shown on Contract Drawings and specified
under this Section. Measurement for sanitary sewer will be made
horizontally from manhole centreline/stub to manhole
centreline/stub over surface after work has been completed.”
Delete Clause 1\.6\.3 and Replace With: “Payment for sanitary
service includes trench excavation, disposal of surplus excavated
material onsite, supply and installation of all pipe, fittings and
related materials, bedding, imported or native backfill, cleaning and
flushing, testing, supply and install of at grade red painted stake for
stub extents, and all other work and materials necessary to
complete installation as shown on Contract Drawings and specified
under this Section. All related fittings and components are to be as
per MMCD Standard Detail Drawings S7\.
Measurement for each service will be for each complete service
installed, with no regard to length of service pipe installed.”

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATIONS PAGE 7 OF 7
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
33 34 01 1\.8 Delete Clause 1\.8\.2 and Replace With: “Payment for sanitary
Sanitary Measurement sewer forcemain includes trench excavation, disposal of surplus
Forcemains and Payment excavated material onsite, supply and installation of all pipe, fittings
and related materials including the manhole drop structure, bolts,
gaskets, tie\-rods, bedding, imported or native backfill, cleaning and
flushing, testing, supply and install of at grade red painted stake for
stub extents, and all other work and materials necessary to
complete installation as shown on Contract Drawings and specified
under this Section. Measurement for sanitary sewer forcemain will
be made horizontally from manhole centreline/stub to manhole
centreline/stub over surface after work has been completed.”
33 40 01 1\.6 Delete Clause 1\.6\.2 and Replace With: “Payment for storm sewer
Storm Sewer Measurement includes trench excavation, disposal of surplus excavated material
and Payment onsite, supply and installation of all pipe and pipe anchor blocks,
fittings and related materials, bedding, imported or native backfill,
cleaning and flushing, testing, supply and install of at grade green
painted stake for stub extents, and all other work and materials
necessary to complete installation as shown on Contract Drawings
and specified under this Section. Measurement for storm sewer will
be made horizontally from manhole centreline/stub to manhole
centreline/stub over surface after work has been completed.”
Delete Clause 1\.6\.3 and Replace With: “Payment for storm
service includes trench excavation, disposal of surplus excavated
material onsite, supply and installation of all pipe, fittings and
related materials, bedding, imported or native backfill, cleaning and
flushing, testing, supply and install of at grade green painted stake
for stub extents, and all other work and materials necessary to
complete installation as shown on Contract Drawings and specified
under this Section. All related fittings and components are to be as
per MMCD Standard Detail Drawings S7\.
Measurement for each service will be for each complete service
installed, with no regard to length of service pipe installed.”
33 44 01 1\.5 Clause 1\.5\.1\.1 delete: "except riser". Replace with: "including
Manholes and Measurement riser. If specified, outside drop is to be constructed and is included
Catch basins and Payment in the cost for each manhole. All work associated with production of
any required shop drawings including modifications thereof is
considered incidental."
Delete Clause 1\.5\.1\.2

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6 SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATION SECTION 01 10 00 SS
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] MEASUREMENT AND PAYMENT PAGE 1 OF 2
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
1\.0 GENERAL .1 Section 01 10 00SS addresses additional measurement
and payment clauses which do not apply to other
specification sections
1\.1 Quality Control Testing .1 Perform all necessary Quality Management testing as
indicated on the Contract Drawings and/or within the
Contract Documents. Payment shall be based on the
Lump Sum bid in the Schedule of Quantities and Unit
Prices as measured and accepted by the Contract
Administrator. Payment shall be accepted as full
compensation for everything furnished and done. Payment
of the Lump Sum bid will be paid in equal amounts each
month.
.2 Give timely notice requesting inspection if Work is
designated for special tests, inspections or review by the
Contract Administrator’s instructions.
.3 All submissions shall be prompt to ensure that all
necessary retesting and replacement of construction can
proceed without delay.
.4 Process and distribute all required copies of test reports
and test information and related instructions to all of his
Sub\-Contractors and Suppliers to ensure that all necessary
retesting and replacement of construction can proceed
without delay.
.5 Provide the Owner with copies of all test results including
approval of all subgrade prior to any placement of fill
material.
.6 Submit samples and/or materials required for testing, as
specifically requested in specifications or by the Owner.
.7 Submit test results specifying that material requirements
are being met.
.8 Provide labour and facilities to obtain and handle samples
and materials on\-site. Provide sufficient space to store and
cure test samples.
1\.2 Survey .1 Payment shall be based on the Lump Sum bid in the
Schedule of Quantities and Unit Prices as measured and
accepted by the Contract Administrator. Payment shall be
accepted as full compensation for everything furnished and
done.
.2 Payment of the Lump Sum bid will be paid in equal
amounts each month.
.3 The Contractor is responsible for all staking, survey layout
and quantity calculations required for the completion of all
Work, as shown on the Contract Drawings, and to affect
incidental field adjustments.
.4 The unit price bid shall include, but not be limited to; all
survey layout, staking, cross sections, survey and
calculations of various surfaces for calculations of areas

CENTRE MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL
WORK PACKAGE \#2 – PHASE 2
AND WORK PACKAGE 6 SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATION SECTION 01 10 00 SS
\[EARTHWORKS AND CIVIL] MEASUREMENT AND PAYMENT PAGE 2 OF 2
CITY OF LANGFORD SEPTEMBER 2024
and/or volumes required for payment items, coordination
required for the completion of the work, record survey,
generation/delivery of red\-line drawings and survey text
file, re\-establishment and registration of survey monuments
(by a licenced BC land surveyor) disturbed by construction,
and all other work and materials incidental and necessary
to complete the Work.
.5 Any calculations necessary shall be performed by the
Contractor and shall be provided to the Contract
Administrator at any time upon request. Information shall
include text files, surfaces and any CAD drawings.
\- END \-

