SECTION 00001
TENDER NO. 2022\-1604
MCMATH SECONDARY SCHOOL
4251 GARRY STREET, RICHMOND, BC
MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
School District No. 38 (Richmond)
5200 River Road
Richmond, B.C. V7C 1A4
July 1, 2022

SECTION 00003
SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND)
TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1 OF 1
Section Section Name No. of Pages
Number
00001 Title Page 1
00003 Table of Contents 1
CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS
00004 Site Viewing Notice 1
00100 Instructions to Bidders 8
00300 Form of Tender 3
00300 Form of Tender Schedule No. 1 1
00300 Form of Tender Schedule No. 2 1
00300 Form of Tender Schedule No. 3 1
00300 Form of Tender Schedule No. 4 1
00300 Form of Tender Schedule No. 5 1
00300 Form of Tender Schedule No. 6 1
00400 Appendix “A” 4
00400 Appendix “B” 1
00400 Appendix “C” 1
00400 Appendix “D” 1
00500 Supplementary Conditions 5
00600 Project Specifications 7
00700 Outline Scope of Work 7
00750 Product Specifications 2
00800 Drawings 2

SECTION 00004
School District No. No.38 (Richmond)
5200 River Road
Richmond, B.C.
V7C 1A4
July 1, 2022
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
This opportunity is for qualified electrical contractors. The tender is for an interior and exterior lighting and
lighting controls upgrade at McMath Secondary, 4251 Garry Street, Richmond, BC.
Qualifications: As this project is being conducted in partnership with BC
Hydro’s Power Smart Program, all contractors must be members in good standing
with the BC Hydro Power Smart Alliance.
A MANDATORY site visit for contractors shall be conducted, starting at the front entrance lobby of
McMath Secondary School at 3:00 p.m. PST on Tuesday July 5, 2022\. All bidders will be responsible for
recording their presence by signing an attendance sheet. Tenders will only be accepted from those that
have inspected the site at that time.
Submissions (closing location) are to be done electronically via email to purchasing@sd38\.bc.ca .
Proposals will be received until the Proposal Closing of 2:00 p.m. local time on Tuesday, August 2,
2022 – time of receipt will be determined by the time stamp at the closing location.
The lowest or any bid may not necessarily be accepted. A 10% Bid Bond or a certified cheque in the
amount of 10% of the bid amount payable to School District No. 38 (Richmond) must accompany the
Tender. The successful bidder shall be required to provide a 50% performance bond within 10 days of
award of contract.
All enquiries related to this Request for Tender (“RFT”) should be directed to the Purchasing
Department, Email purchasing@sd38\.bc.ca . Make requests for information to the Richmond School
District No. 38 (“The District”) in writing no later than five (5\) working days prior to the closing of the RFT,
by email, for interpretation of the RFT documents or inquiries of any nature relating thereto. The District
will consider all such inquiries, inform the proponent, and any clarification or revision to the RFT
documents resulting from such inquiries will be given to all proponents by addendum if required.
Yours truly,
Jonathan Ho
Manager, Energy \& Sustainability
School District No.38 (Richmond)

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00100
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY UPGRADE
INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS PAGE 1 OF 9
1 Definitions
Owner: School District No. 38 (Richmond)
Contractor: Successful bidder
Consultant: Quantum Lighting, Inc.
Work: Is defined by the Scope of Work
Contract: CCDC2e, 2008 Stipulated Price Contract and all contract documents,
including:
− Instructions to Bidders
− Form of Tender (including Schedules No. 1\-6\)
− Appendices “A” to “D”
− Supplementary Conditions
− Specifications as listed on the Document Index
− Addenda as issued
Register: This project is a BC Hydro Power Smart project. The successful bidder must
be enrolled in their Power Smart Alliance Program before submitting a
tender.
2 Scope of Work
This project is being undertaken as an energy reduction initiative with potential incentive
funding by BC Hydro Power Smart. The achievement of the planned energy savings is a
key element of the project.
The tender involves the removal of existing lighting fixtures, the installation of new lighting
fixtures, retrofitting existing lighting fixtures and installation of new lighting controls and
associated electrical wiring.
3 Tender Instructions
A. Submissions (closing location) are to be done electronically via email to
purchasing@sd38\.bc.ca .
Submissions are to include a duly executed Proposal with all other
documentation as called for in the RFT.
Proposals will be received until the Proposal Closing of 2:00 p.m. local time
on Tuesday, August 2, 2022 \- time of receipt will be determined by the time
stamp at the closing location.
Any proposal received after the above\-noted time will be rejected without further
consideration.
Faxed, mailed or couriered proposals will not be accepted.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00100
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY UPGRADE
INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS PAGE 2 OF 9
Amendments to your proposal can be emailed prior to the Proposal Closing. An
authorized signatory of the company must sign all amendments. All monetary
revisions shall be stated as an addition or reduction to the Proposed Fee.
System Limitation for Email Submissions: Please note that there are restrictions to the
size and type of documents which are acceptable.
The District assumes no risk, makes no guarantee, warranty or representation
whatsoever, and shall have no responsibility or liability, whether based on negligence or
other torts, contract, warranty, strict liability or otherwise, for or in connection with (i) the
timely delivery of any information or documentation, including, without limitation, these
RFT Documents, whether electronically, or otherwise, in connection with this RFT; (ii)
the timely receipt of any Proposal, revisions, notice of withdrawals, or any other
information or documentation from any Proponent or any person, or; (iii) the working
order, functioning or malfunctioning, of electronic transmission or any electronic
information system.
B. Tender must be submitted on the Form of Tender included in these
documents and completed in the spaces provided. The contract price must
cover the complete cost of carrying out the work.
C. Bidders must complete and include the Form of Tender Schedules No.1 to 6\.
Failure to do so may result in their tender not being considered.
D. There will be no public opening of the proposals received. Proposals will be
opened privately by the District after the Closing. No public announcement of the
contents of any proposal will be made at any time.
E. In carrying out these works the Contractor will act as a Prime Contractor and must
agree to keep the Owner, and the Consultant indemnified against any and all
claims, actions or demands that may be brought, made or arise in respect of
anything done or omitted to be done by its’ employees who shall be and remain at
all times and for all purposes, the servants or employees of the Contractor.
F. Each tender must bear the signature of legal signing authority. In the case of a
Company tendering, the tender may also bear the corporate seal of the Company.
G. The addition to or changing of any words in this Form of Tender by the bidder or
failure to comply with and complete all items may be cause for rejection without
consideration of the tender.
H. All tenders, after closing time and date, become the property of the Owner.
4 Examination by Bidder
A. Each bidder shall study the contract, including specifications and is encouraged to
visit the site of the work before submitting a tender and must be satisfied by first\-

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00100
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY UPGRADE
INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS PAGE 3 OF 9
hand examination as to the local conditions to be met with during construction and
conduct of the Work.
B. Claims which result from a misunderstanding of the actual conditions of the site
shall not be considered after submission of the tender.
C. Each bidder is responsible for informing themselves as to the contents and
requirements of this tender. Each bidder is solely responsible to ensure that they
have obtained and considered all information necessary to understand the
requirements of the tender and to prepare and submit their tender. The Owner will
not be responsible for any loss, damage or expense incurred by a bidder as a
result of any inaccuracy or incompleteness in this tender, or as a result of any
misunderstanding or misinterpretation of the terms of this tender on the part of any
bidder.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00100
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY UPGRADE
INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS PAGE 4 OF 9
5 Enquiries
A. All general and technical enquiries relating to the specifications or form of tender
shall be directed in writing to Jeff Jang, Assistant Purchasing Manager, by email
to purchasing@sd38\.bc.ca .
B. Electronic versions of the Form of Tender documents in WORD and Unit Price
Sheet in EXCEL format are available by e\-mail request and are intended to simplify
tender preparation.
C. Any verbal representations, promises, statements or advice made by any
employees of the Owner, other than those made through the office of the Assistant
Purchasing Manager, School District No.38 (Richmond), should not be relied upon.
6 Omissions and Discrepancies
A. Should a bidder find omissions from or discrepancies in the contract specifications
or other documents, or be in doubt as to their meaning, the bidder should notify
purchasing@sd38\.bc.ca no later than 48 hours prior to the tender closing. Written
instruction to all bidders may be issued in the form of an addendum, which shall
become part of the contract and shall be covered in the contract price.
B. No oral interpretations made to a bidder as to the meaning of the contract, including
all specifications or other documents shall be considered binding. All request for
an interpretation shall be made in writing and forwarded to Jeff Jang, Assistant
Purchasing Manager, by email to purchasing@sd38\.bc.ca .
C.
7 Adjustments
A. A bidder may without prejudice to itself, withdraw, modify or correct a tender after
it has been deposited with the Owner, provided the request for withdrawal,
modification or correction is filed with the Owner in writing before the time set for
the tender closing. The original tender, as modified by written communication, will
be considered as the tender submitted by the bidder.
B. Revisions prior to opening of tender may be forwarded to Jeff Jang, Assistant
Purchasing Manager, by email to purchasing@sd38\.bc.ca .
C. No bidder will be permitted to withdraw a tender between the closing time for
receipt of the tenders and the actual award of the contract, unless the award is
delayed, for a period exceeding ninety (90\) calendar days.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00100
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY UPGRADE
INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS PAGE 5 OF 9
8 Execution of Agreement
A. The bidder to whom the award is made shall enter into the Contract Agreement
within thirty (30\) days after being notified in writing by the Owner of the acceptance
of the tender.
B. The execution of agreement may be subject to the BC Hydro Pre\-approval Power
Smart Incentive application.
9 Terms
A. If any terms, covenants and conditions contained in the tender documents conflict
with anything in the Agreement, the terms, covenants, and conditions in the tender
documents apply.
10 Sub\-Contractors
A. The Bidder shall list in the Form of Tender (Schedule No. 3 – Sub\-contractors) the
names of the sub\-contractors to be engaged, if any. It is a BC Hydro requirement
that subcontractors performing work representing more than 10% of the project
value must be registered with the BC Hydro Power Smart Alliance before
beginning the work. No change of sub\-contractors will be permitted following the
opening tenders without the written permission of the Owner.
11 Financial Security
A. A 10% Bid Bond or a certified cheque in the amount of 10% of the bid amount
payable to School District No. 38 (Richmond) must accompany the Tender. The
Bidder shall execute the Agreement between the Owner and Contractor and
deposit with the Owner a Performance Bond in the amount of fifty percent (50%)
of the Tender Price within 10 days of the date of the Notice of Acceptance, such
time limit being extended only with the written approval of the Owner.
B. The Bidder will provide Commercial General Liability Insurance, as outlined in
Section 00500 of the tender document, if the tender price is over $50,000\.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00100
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY UPGRADE
INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS PAGE 6 OF 9
12 Prime Contractor Designation
A. By submitting a tender response, the bidder agrees to assume all the
responsibilities of a Prime Contractor as outlined in the Worker’s Compensation
Act and Regulations. The Contractor shall submit to the Owner upon acceptance
of the tender a completed Prime Contractor Designation Form as show in Appendix
“A”, which shall also be attached to and form part of the Agreement between the
Owner and the Contractor.
B. All materials delivered and services provided must be in accordance with all laws,
regulations and requirements of B.C. Workers' Compensation Board and
Occupational Health and Safety Legislation.
C. Proof of W.C.B. registration must be submitted, along with proof of up\-to\-date
assessment payment (a “Clearance Letter”), prior to commencement of work.
13 Work Schedule
A. The Contractor must establish a work schedule for the work within seven (7\) days
of notification of acceptance. The work should start when the contract is signed
and the schedule is established in conjunction with, and to the complete
satisfaction of the Owner.
B. The Contractor will be required to take whatever measures are necessary to
complete the work in compliance with the established work schedule at no
additional cost to the Owner.
C. Substantial Completion must be achieved by February 28, 2023\.
14 Rules and Wages
A. In tendering for this work, and when called upon to enter into an agreement with
the Owner, the Contractor and sub\-contractors will be bound to comply with all
laws, statutes and municipal bylaws pertaining to the work.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00100
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY UPGRADE
INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS PAGE 7 OF 9
15 Pricing
A. The Price shown as Contract Price on the Form of Tender, must include all duties,
PST (excluding the GST), labour, materials, handling charges, transportation,
disposal costs, installation costs, Prime Cost (PC) sum, permit costs, and all other
charges incidental to the completion of the work.
B. Where Prime Cost Sums have been stipulated for an item in the tender, it shall
be the responsibility of the contractor to finalize the scope and firm price for the
item with the Consultant prior to the start of work on that item, other than any
necessary investigative work.
16 Payments
A. Progress payment(s) to cover the ongoing materials/construction expenses will be
verified by the Consultant and approved by the Owner.
B. Final payment(s) will be authorized after the Certified Substantial Performance
dates certified by the Consultant, less a lien holdback of 10% for 55 days. The
Contractor and the Owner will be advised of the certified Substantial Completion
dates, in writing, by the Consultant.
17 Protection of Public
A. The Contractor is responsible for taking all reasonable precautions against injury
to public and staff and will be liable for all claims resulting from any injury sustained
as a result of the work.
18 Protection of Students \& Staff
A. The Contractor shall ensure that all staff working on Richmond School District sites
are registered in the Criminal Records Review Program, administered by the
Ministry of Public Safety and Solicitor General, either by submission to the
Richmond School District of a Criminal Record Check Consent Form or by
submission to the Richmond School District of a Criminal Record Check Sharing
Consent Form.
B. No individual may be assigned to work on school premises without prior approval
by the Owner.
C. Failure to observe the terms of this clause shall be considered a breach of contract
which may result in termination or suspension of the contract and/or any other
actions deemed appropriate at the discretion of the Owner.
D. All interior lighting controls upgrades shall be performed outside of instructional
hours.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00100
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY UPGRADE
INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS PAGE 8 OF 9
E. The policy of School District No. 38 (Richmond) strictly prohibits the use of tobacco
products on school district property.
19 Record Drawings:
A. The Contractor shall keep a set of Scope of Work spreadsheets and one set of
white print drawings on the project and enter all changes.
B. The Contractor shall provide one set of Scope of Work spreadsheets and one set
of white prints drawings with all marked changes of the "as built" work to the
Consultant at the completion of the project.
20 Signs
No advertising signs or notices will be permitted on\-site unless authorized by the Owner.
21 Owner’s Acceptance of Tenders
A. Notwithstanding any custom in the trade, the Owner reserves the right to, in its
sole discretion, and according to its own judgment of its best interest:
➢ Reject any and all tenders;
➢ Award the tender to other than the low bidder.
B. The Owner is not liable for a bidder’s costs in preparing a tender.
C. The lowest or any tender will not necessarily be accepted.
D. The right is reserved, as the interests of the School District No. 38 (Richmond)
may require, to reject any or all tenders. The right is reserved, as the interests of
the School District may require, to waive any minor informality or irregularity in
tenders received. This Tender process is subject to executive funding and/or
approval, and the Board reserves the right to eliminate portions of the services or
to reject any or all Tenders.
E. The award of this contract shall be based on the evaluation of the tenders by the
School District No. 38 (Richmond) on any basis, including but not limited to the
following criteria:
➢ The overall cost impact of the tender on the operations of the School
District No. 38 (Richmond)
➢ The reputation and experience of the Contractor and of the Contractor’s
staff to be allocated to the work
➢ The technical credibility, financial resources, and environmental
responsibility of the Bidder;
➢ The School District No. 38 (Richmond)’s assessment of the capability of
the
Bidder and the Bidder's staff to supply the goods, services, or equipment

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00100
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY UPGRADE
INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS PAGE 9 OF 9
within the time frame required by the School District for the duration of
the term;
➢ The best value to the School District based on quality, service, price, and
any criteria set out herein based solely on the School District's
assessment of the tender;
➢ Additional criteria as set out in the Special Conditions and Specifications.
F. The Contractor acknowledges and agrees that the School District No. 38
(Richmond) will not be responsible for any costs, expenses, losses, damage, or
liability incurred by the Bidder as a result of or arising out of submitting a tender
for the proposed Agreement, or due to the School District's acceptance or non\-
acceptance of their bid.
22 Ineligibility of Bids
It is essential that bids thoroughly address and complete each requirement identified in
the quotation. At the Owner’s sole discretion:
➢ Incomplete bids may be declared "non\-responsive";
➢ Bids that are improperly signed, conditional, illegible, obscure, or contain
arithmetical errors, erasures, alterations, or irregularities of any kind may be
considered invalid;
➢ Where there is a discrepancy, written amounts shall take precedence over figure
amounts.
23 Cancellation of Tender
➢ The Owner reserves the right to cancel this tender at any time and for any reason,
and will not be responsible for any loss, damage, cost or expense incurred or
suffered by any bidder as a result of that cancellation.
24 Accuracy of Information
➢ The Owner makes no representation or warranty; either express or implied, with
respect to the accuracy or completeness of any information contained or referred
to in this tender.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00300
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
FORM OF TENDER PAGE 1 OF 3
PROJECT: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
SUBMITTED BY:
TO:
School District No. 38 (Richmond)
5200 River Road
Richmond, B.C.
V7C 1A4
Attention: Jeff Jang, Purchasing Department
School District No. 38 (Richmond)
1 The undersigned bidder, having carefully read and examined the Instructions to Bidders,
Form of Tender (including Schedules No. 1 to 6\), the Agreement, General Conditions of
the Agreement, Supplementary Conditions of the Agreement, Appendices “A” to “D” and
Specifications and having carefully examined the locality and site of the work and having
full knowledge of the work required and the materials to be furnished and used, tenders
and offers to enter into a contract to complete the whole of the work and provide all
necessary labour, plant, tools and materials, as set forth and in strict accordance with the
specifications, drawings, and other contract documents for the Stipulated Price of:
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Dollars ($\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_)
The price tendered includes and covers all duties, labour and material costs, handling
charges, transportation charges, disposal costs (other than lamp recycling), installation
costs, Prime Cost (PC) sum, permit costs, bonding costs, and all other charges incidental
to the completion of the work under this contract. The Provincial Sales Tax (PST) should
be included and the Goods and Services Tax (GST) should not be included.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00300
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
FORM OF TENDER PAGE 2 OF 3
2 The Bidder acknowledges receipt of the following Addenda to the Tender Documents:
No. Date Pages
3 Duration of Offer:
The Bidder agrees and confirms that the tender shall remain open to acceptance and shall
be irrevocable for a period of ninety (90\) calendar days after the tender closing date.
4 Commencement of Work and Total Performance:
I/We confirm that notwithstanding any delay in the preparation and execution of the formal
Agreement we are prepared to commence work on or after and within
calendar days of receiving written notice of acceptance of tender. I/We
further confirm the Certified Substantial Completion will be achieved within
calendar days of the commencement of work. Substantial Completion must be
achieved by February 28, 2023\.
5 The bidder understands and agrees that the Owner is not bound to accept the lowest or
any tender is not accepted.
6 I (We) declare that no person, firm or company other than the one whose signature, or the
signature of whose proper officers and seal are affixed below, has any interest in this
tender or in the proposed contract to be taken. I (We) further declare that this tender is
made without any connection, knowledge, comparison of figures, or arrangement with any
other company, firm or person making a tender for the same work.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00300
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
FORM OF TENDER PAGE 3 OF 3
7 Post\-Tender Acceptance Requirements:
If I (we) are notified of the acceptance of this tender, I (we) will:
➢ execute the Contract Agreement;
➢ furnish necessary insurance and WCB documents.
(Signature of Bidder) (Signature of Witness)
Title: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Address:
If the bidder is a company, the tender must be signed in the name of the company by the
duly authorized officer who shall also subscribe their own name and office. The seal of
the company may also be affixed.
If the bidder is not a company, the tender shall be signed by an authorized member of
the firm and his address given.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00300
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
FORM OF TENDER PAGE 1 OF 1
SCHEDULE NO. 1 – UNIT PRICES

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00300
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
FORM OF TENDER PAGE 1 OF 1
SCHEDULE NO. 2 \- BIDDER’S INFORMATION
Name of firm or company:
Address of firm or company:
Regular hours of business:
Telephone number during regular hours of business:
Fax no.:
Name of contact:
Number of employees currently on staff:
Individual supervising this project:
Name:
Address:
Telephone no.:

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00300
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
FORM OF TENDER PAGE 1 OF 1
SCHEDULE NO. 3 – SUB\-CONTRACTOR
Name of firm or company:
Regular hours of business:
Telephone number during regular hours of business:
Telephone number outside regular hours of business:
Fax No.:
Name of contact:
Number of employees currently on staff:
List below three references of local organizations that the Sub\-Contractor has performed similar
work for in the past twelve months:
1\) Organization Name:
Contact:
Telephone No.: Fax No.:
2\) Organization Name:
Contact:
Telephone No.: Fax No.:
3\) Organization Name:
Contact:
Telephone No.: Fax No.:
Individual supervising this project:

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00300
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
FORM OF TENDER PAGE 1 OF 1
SCHEDULE NO. 4 – PRELIMINARY CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
Please Provide a Preliminary Construction Schedule.
Anticipated Completion Date: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
ACTIVITY CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE – WEEKS
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00300
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
FORM OF TENDER PAGE 1 OF 1
SCHEDULE NO. 5 – EXPERIENCE OF CONTRACTOR SUPERINTENDENT
Name:
Experience
Dates:
Project Name:
Responsibility:
References:
Dates:
Project Name:
Responsibility:
References:
Dates:
Project Name:
Responsibility:
References:

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00300
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
FORM OF TENDER PAGE 1 OF 1
SCHEDULE NO. 6 – LABOUR RATES
Table of Mark\-up Percentages and Labour Rates for Additional Work
Item Rate
Mark\-Up for Material Required for Additional Work %
Staff Rates for work items not covered by unit prices:
Electrician $ /hour
Apprentice $ /hour
Helper $ /hour
Other applicable staff rates (specify): $ /hour
$
$
$
$
$
$

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00400
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
(THIS FORM TO BE COMPLETED ONLY BY THE SUCCESSFUL CONTRACTOR) PAGE 1 OF 4
APPENDIX “A” – PRIME CONTRACTOR DESIGNATION
DEFINITIONS:
According to the Workers Compensation Act (Part III)
Owner: School District No.38
(Richmond)
Prime Contractor: Any Contractor designated by the Owner to be the
Prime Contractor on a project with respect to
occupational health and safety ONLY
DESIGNATION:
By signing this agreement, the Contractor agrees to assume the responsibilities of a Prime
Contractor as outlined in the Workers’ Compensation Act, and Regulations.
As a Contractor signing this agreement with the Owner, you are agreeing that your Company,
Management staff, Supervisory staff and workers will comply with the Workers’ Compensation
Board (WCB) Occupational Health and Safety Regulation and the Workers’ Compensation (WC)
Act.
If the Prime Contractor wishes to designate another firm as the Prime Contractor, they shall advise
the Owner of their intentions in writing prior to the commencement of the new Prime Contractor
designation. The new Prime Contractor must agree through signature to all the terms of this
agreement.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00400
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
(THIS FORM TO BE COMPLETED ONLY BY THE SUCCESSFUL CONTRACTOR) PAGE 2 OF 4
PRIME CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITIES:
In the contract tendering process, the potential Prime Contractor candidate will provide the
following information:
• Proof that they are registered with the Workers Compensation Board (WCB) of BC and notify
the Owner of any change of status during the course of the project.
• Proof that they are up to date on WCB assessment payments
• Proof that they have taken optional coverage for Self, Limited Partners, and family members
working on the contract, as required
• Proof that they have taken appropriate coverage for the work being done (i.e. ensure they are
in the right classification).
Once the selection process has been completed and the Prime Contractor has been
determined, the Prime Contractor shall:
• Review, complete and sign Appendix “A”, “Prime Contractor Designation”.
• Meet with the School District Contract Liaison, prior to the commencement of work, to be
notified of any extraordinary pre\-existing hazards peculiar to the project.
• Review, complete and sign with the School District Contract Liaison, Appendix “C”,
“Confirmation of Responsibilities”.
• Maintain and make available, the documents listed in Appendix “D”, where applicable.
• Submit the Notice of Project to the WCB, where required on a construction workplace. See
WCB OHS Regulation 20\.2 for the general requirements of a Notice of Project.
• Schedule and attend regular meetings with the District.
• Coordinate with the District Project Manager any requests for placement of exterior bins,
storage containers, etc.
• Identify and designate a qualified co\-ordinator, who must co\-ordinate health and safety
activities on the workplace, if the workplace is a construction workplace with a combined
workforce of more than two (5\) workers
• Assume responsibility for the health and safety of the workers on the project.
• Inform all other employers for the project of the designation of Prime Contractor.
• Co\-ordinate all activities of employers, workers and other persons at the workplace relating to
occupational health and safety.
• Establish and maintain a system or process that will ensure all employers, workers and other
persons at the workplace comply with Part III of the Occupational Health and Safety, Workers
Compensation Act, and the WCB OHS Regulations.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00400
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
(THIS FORM TO BE COMPLETED ONLY BY THE SUCCESSFUL CONTRACTOR) PAGE 3 OF 4
PRIME CONTRACTOR QUALIFIED CO\-ORDINATOR:
The responsibilities of the qualified co\-ordinator are listed in WCB OHS Regulation 20\.3\.
The Prime Contractor’s Qualified Co\-ordinator must:
• Co\-ordinate all health and safety activities for the project.
• Know who all other Contractors’ Qualified Persons are, if it is a construction workplace.
• Ensure that all workers at the workplace are informed of extraordinary pre\-existing workplace
hazards, and of any hazards on the workplace that are created by the work.
• Ensure that all workers are adequately trained in the performance of their job tasks with
particular reference to any job or task which may cause a risk to themselves, their co\-workers
or to any third party.
• Ensure that the hazards are addressed throughout the duration of the work activity.
• Ensure there are written procedures for safe work practices to be followed at the workplace.
• Have a workplace drawing showing where all employers at the workplace are working, where
first aid is located, emergency transportation system for injured workers, and evacuation
marshalling points. This document must be provided to the Owner prior to the commencement
of work activity.
• Ensure that if there is an accident, where there is loss of life or where there was potential for
an accident leading to loss of life, the Owner is advised forthwith of the details and any other
information. This will be provided to the Owner for information purposes only.
• Ensure that workplace safety meetings are held and documented.
• Ensure that there is compliance with any other statute, regulation or bylaw which is in place
to provide worker safety.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00400
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
(THIS FORM TO BE COMPLETED ONLY BY THE SUCCESSFUL CONTRACTOR) PAGE 4 OF 4
CONCLUSION:
Any WCB or WCB Occupational Health and Safety regulation violation by the Prime Contractor
or any other employer, worker or other person on the workplace shall be considered a breach of
contract which may result in termination or suspension of the contract and/or any other actions
deemed appropriate at the discretion of the Owner.
Any penalties, sanctions or additional costs levied against the Prime Contractor will be the
responsibility of the Prime Contractor.
I, the undersigned, acknowledge having read and understand the information above.
By signing this agreement, I agree as a representative of the firm noted below, to assume the
responsibilities of the Prime Contractor for this project.
Date:
Contract: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604
MCMATH SECONDARY SCHOOL LIGHTING UPGRADE
Firm
Name:
Address:
Signature of Prime Contractor Title

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00400
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
(THIS FORM TO BE COMPLETED ONLY BY THE SUCCESSFUL CONTRACTOR) PAGE 1 OF 1
APPENDIX “B” – PRE\-CONTRACT HAZARD ASSESSMENT
Pre\-Contract Hazard Prime Contractor
Assessment designated: Yes
Prime Contractor: Location: Contractor Representative:
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ McMath Secondary Tel:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
4251 Garry Street, Date: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Richmond, BC
Hazards Identified: Safety Procedure
Document Provided
Yes / No
Hazard \#1: Working in high\-ceiling areas
Comments:
Hazard \#2: Presence of voltages \>250V
Comments:
Hazard \#3:
Comments:
Hazard \#4:
Comments:
Action required to eliminate or control workplace hazards:
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00400
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
(THIS FORM TO BE COMPLETED ONLY BY THE SUCCESSFUL CONTRACTOR) PAGE 1 OF 1
APPENDIX “C” – CONFIRMATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
Discussion with Prime Contractor and Owner Contract Liaison
Date Meeting Location
Firm Name (Prime Contractor)
Prime Contractor Representative Job Title
• Acknowledges the appointment of Prime Contractor yes no
• Understands that in any conflict of directions, WCB OHS Regulation and/or the yes no
Act shall prevail
• Has been informed of any extraordinary pre\-existing workplace hazards yes no
• Will communicate hazards to any persons who may be affected and ensure that yes no
appropriate measures are taken to effectively control or eliminate the hazards
• Accepts that written documentation (e.g. Safety Program, notes, records, yes no
inspections, meetings etc.) on all health and safety issues must be available
upon request to School District \#38 (Richmond) and/or to a WCB Prevention
officer at the workplace
• Will confirm that all workers are suitably trained and competent to perform the yes no
duties for which they have been assigned
• Safety orientation of all new workers will be conducted yes no
• Will assess and will coordinate the first aid requirements yes no
• Assumes responsibility for the health and safety of their workers and for yes no
ensuring compliance by their workers with the WC Act and WCB OH\&S
Regulations
• Understands any WCB violation by the Prime Contractor may be considered a yes no
breach of contract resulting in possible termination or suspension of the
contract and/or any other actions deemed appropriate at the discretion of
School District \#38 (Richmond)
• Understands any penalties, sanctions or additional costs levied against the yes no
Prime Contractor will be the responsibility of the Prime Contractor
Notes/Follow\-up: On additional pages as required
Signature Signature
Prime Contractor Rep. Owner Contract Liaison

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00400
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
(THIS FORM TO BE COMPLETED ONLY BY THE SUCCESSFUL CONTRACTOR) PAGE 1 OF 1
APPENDIX “D” – RECORDS TO BE MAINTAINED AND AVAILABLE
The documents required to be maintained and available by the Prime Contractor will include, but
will not be limited to:
• The Prime Contractor’s safety program
• All notices which the Prime Contractor is required to provide to the Workers’
Compensation Board by the WCB OHS Regulation
• Any written summary of remedial actions taken to reduce occupational health and safety
hazards within the area of responsibility
• All directives and inspection reports issued by the Workers’ Compensation Board
• Reports on incidents and accidents occurring within the Prime Contractor’s area of
responsibility for which notification to the Worker’s Compensation Board is required
• Records of all safety meetings held between Contractors and their workers
• Records of workplace health and safety orientation
• Written evidence of’ inspections within the workplace
• Occupational first aid records
• Worker training records

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00500
RE:TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 1 OF 5
SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS
The Agreement between the Owner and the Contractor, the Definitions and the General
Conditions shall be based on those contained in CCDC 2 (2008\) Stipulated Price Contract, as
amended and supplemented herein.
The following Supplementary Conditions shall modify, delete, and add to the Agreement. Where
any article, paragraph, or subparagraph in the General Conditions is supplemented by one of the
following paragraphs, the provisions of the article, paragraph, or subparagraph shall remain in
effect and the supplemental provisions shall be considered as added. Where any article,
paragraph, or subparagraph is amended, voided, or superseded by any of the following
paragraphs, the provisions of the article, paragraph, or subparagraph not amended, voided or
superseded shall remain in effect.
MODIFICATIONS TO DEFINITIONS
DEFINITIONS
9\. Add the following sentence to the definition of 4 Contractor:
“For the purposes of the Contract, The Contractor shall be deemed to be “Prime Contractor”
as defined by the applicable provincial Health and Safety legislation”.
MODIFICATIONS TO GENERAL CONDITIONS
GC 3\.1 CONTROL OF THE WORK
Add new paragraph 3\.1\.3 as follows:
“3\.1\.3 For the purposes of the Contract, the Contractor shall be deemed to be “Prime
Contractor” as defined by the applicable Health and Safety legislation.”
GC 11\.1—INSURANCE, replace entirely with the following:
11\.1\.1 Without restricting the generality of GC 12\.1—INDEMNIFICATION, insurance and coverage will
be arranged and paid for as under\-noted:
(a) Wrap\-up Liability Insurance
1\) The Owner shall provide, maintain and pay for Commercial General Liability Insurance
with a limit of Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000\.00\), inclusive per occurrence, Twenty Million
Dollars ($20,000,000\.00\) general aggregate for bodily injury, death, and damage to property
including loss of use thereof, product/completed operations liability with a limit of Ten Million
Dollars ($10,000,000\.00\) annual aggregate.
2\) The insurance shall cover the Owner, Contractors and Sub\-contractors, Architects,
Engineers, Consultants and anyone employed by them to perform a part or parts of the Work
but excluding suppliers whose only function is to supply and/or transport products to the

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00500
RE:TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 2 OF 5
project site. The insurance does not extend to any activities, works, jobs or undertakings of
the insureds other than those directly related to the Work of this Contract.
3\) The insurance shall preclude subrogation claims by the insurer against anyone insured
hereunder.
4\) The insurance shall include coverage for:
.01 Products and Completed Operations Liability (twenty\-four (24\)
months); .02 Cross Liability (or Severability of Interests);
.03 Shoring, Blasting, Excavating, Underpinning, Demolition, Piledriving and Caisson
Work, Work Below Ground Surface, Tunneling and Grading, as applicable;
.04 Limited Pollution Liability (Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000\.00\));
.05 Broad Form Tenants Legal Liability (One Million Dollars ($1,000,000\.00\));
.06 Operation of Attached Machinery; and
.07 Forest Fire Fighting Expenses (One Million Dollars ($1,000,000\.00\)).
5\) Any applicable deductible shall not exceed Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000\.00\) except
with respect to loss or damage arising from hot roofing operations which will carry a
deductible of Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000\).
6\) If the Project requires hot roofing work, the Contractor (or Contractor’s
Subcontractors) will provide, maintain and pay for a Commercial General
Liability Insurance in the amount of Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000\.00\)
inclusive per occurrence against bodily injury and property damage. The
Owner shall be added as an additional insured. Such insurance shall be
primary and include, but not be limited to:
.01 Premises and Operations Liability;
.02 Products and Completed Operations;
.03 Owner’s and Contractor’s Protective Liability;
.04 Blanket Written Contractual Liability;
.05 Contingent Employer’s Liability;
.06 Personal Injury Liability;
.07 Non\-Owned Automobile Liability;
.08 Cross Liability;
.09 Employees as Additional Insureds; and
.10 Broad Form Property Damage.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00500
RE:TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 3 OF 5
6\) This insurance shall be maintained continuously from commencement of the Work until
the date of final certificate for payment is issued or when the insured project is completed
and accepted by or on behalf of the Owner, whichever occurs first, plus with respect to
completed operations cover a further period of twenty\-four (24\) months.
(b) Property Coverage
1\) The Owner shall provide, maintain and pay for Course of Construction coverage, against
“All Risks” of physical loss or damage, and will cover all materials, property, structures and
equipment purchased for, entering into, or forming part of the Work whilst located anywhere
within Canada and continental United States of America (excluding Alaska) during
construction, erection, installation and testing, but such coverage shall not
include coverage for Contractor’s equipment of any description. Such coverage shall be
maintained until Substantial Performance of the Work. There will be a deductible of Ten
Thousand Dollars ($10,000\.00\) for each and every occurrence except for the peril of
earthquake which shall have a five percent (5%) (subject to minimum Two Hundred Fifty
Thousand Dollars ($250,000\.00\)) deductible based upon completed values at time of
loss. A one day waiting period for each month of the estimated project term subject to a
minimum waiting period of thirty (30\) days shall apply with respect to soft costs.
2\) The coverage shall include as a protected entity, each Contractor, Subcontractor,
Architect or Engineer who is engaged in the Project.
3\) The coverage will contain a waiver of the Owner's rights of subrogation against all
protected entities except where a loss is deemed to have been caused by or resulting from
any error in design or any other professional error or omission.
4\) The Contractor shall, at his own expense, take special precaution to prevent fires
occurring in or about the Work and shall observe, and comply with, all insurance policy
warranties and all laws and regulations in force respecting fires.
(c) Automobile Liability Insurance
The Contractor (or Contractor’s Subcontractors) shall provide, maintain and pay for
Automobile Liability Insurance in respect of all owned or leased vehicles if used directly or
indirectly in the performance of the Work, subject to limits of not less than Two Million Dollars
($2,000,000\.00\) inclusive per occurrence. The insurance shall be placed with such company
or companies and in such form and deductibles as may be acceptable to Owner.
(d) Aircraft and/or Watercraft Liability Insurance
When applicable, the Contractor (or Contractor’s Subcontractors) shall provide, maintain and
pay for liability insurance with respect to owned or non\-owned aircraft and watercraft if used
directly or indirectly in the performance of the Work, subject to limits of not less than Two
Million Dollars ($2,000,000\.00\) inclusive per occurrence for bodily injury, death, and damage
to property including loss of use thereof and including aircraft passenger hazard where
applicable. The Owner must be included as an additional insured but only with
respect to liability arising out of the Contractor's performance of the Contract. The insurance
shall be placed with such company or companies and in such form and deductibles as may
be acceptable to Owner.
(e) Contractors Pollution Liability Insurance

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00500
RE:TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 4 OF 5
When applicable, the Contractor (or Contractor’s Subcontractors) shall provide, maintain and
pay for Contractor’s Pollution Liability, where the Contractor’s performance (or Contractor’s
Subcontractors performance) of the Work is associated with hazardous materials clean\-up,
removal and/or containment, transit and disposal. This insurance must have a limit of liability
not less than Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000\.00\) inclusive per occurrence insuring against
bodily injury, death, and damage to property including loss of use thereof. The Owner must
be included as an additional insured but only with respect to
liability arising out of the Contractor's performance of the Contract. Such insurance shall not
be impaired by any time element limitations to the pollution event, biological contaminants
(without limitation, mold and bacteria), asbestos, or lead exclusions. Any “insured vs.
insured” exclusion shall not prejudice coverage for the Owner and shall not affect the
Owner’s ability to bring suit against the Contractor as a third party. If any such insurance is
provided on a claims\-made basis and that insurance is cancelled or not renewed, such policy
must provide a twenty\-four (24\) month extended reporting period.
11\.1\.2 The description of the Owner arranged insurance described herein is provided on a
summary basis only and is not a statement of the actual policy terms and conditions. The
Owner does not represent or warrant that the Owner arranged insurance contains insurance
for any and all losses. It is the Contractor’s responsibility to ascertain the exact nature and
extent of coverage provided by the Owner arranged insurance, to review all policies
pertaining thereto and to obtain any other insurance that it may be prudent for the Contractor
to obtain. The Contractor shall provide, maintain and pay for any additional insurance which
they are required to provide by law or which they consider necessary.
11\.1\.3 The Owner shall, upon request, provide the Contractor with proof of insurance for those
coverages and insurances required to be provided by the Owner prior to commencement of
the Work and subsequent certified copy of policies within a reasonable time period
thereafter.
11\.1\.4 Where applicable, any Contractor insurance required under this section 11\.1\.1 must be
endorsed to provide the Owner with Thirty (30\) days advance written notice of cancellation,
or adverse material change.
11\.1\.5 The Contractor and/or Contractor’s Subcontractors, as may be applicable, shall be
responsible for any deductible amounts under the policies of coverage and insurance except
for perils of flood and earthquake.
11\.1\.6 The Contractor shall provide the Owner with proof of insurance for those insurances required
to be provided by the Contractor prior to the commencement of the Work in the form of a
completed certificate of insurance. The Contractor shall also provide a certified copy of any
required policies to the Owner upon request. The Contractor must cause all Subcontractors
to comply with the insurance requirements outlined herein.
11\.1\.7 The Owner shall not be responsible for injury to the Contractor’s employees or for loss or
damage to the Contractor’s or to the Contractor’s employees’ machinery, equipment, tools or
supplies which may be temporarily used or stored in, on or about the premises during
construction and which may, from time to time, or at the termination of the contract, be
removed from the premises. The Contractor hereby waives all rights of recourse against the
Owner or any other contractor with regard to damage to the Contractor’s property.
GC 11\.2 CONTRACT SECURITY (for projects of One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars
($150,000\.00\) or greater), delete entirely and replace with the following:

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00500
RE:TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 5 OF 5
11\.2\.1 The Contractor shall prior to commencement of the Work furnish performance and labour and
material payment bonds within fourteen (14\) days of the date of this Contract. Each bond
must be in a sum equal to 50% of the total Contract price. The bonds must be issued on the
latest CCDC\-221 or CCDC\-222 approved forms or other such forms approved by the Surety
Association of Canada and issued by a surety company registered in the Province of BC or
another surety company acceptable to
the Owner. The Contractor must maintain the bonds in good standing until the fulfilment of
the Contract.
GC 12\.1 – INDEMNIFICATION, delete GC 12\.1\.1 and 12\.1\.2 and replace with the following:
GC 12\.1 – INDEMNIFICATION
12\.1\.1 Without restricting the parties’ obligation to indemnify as described in paragraphs 12\.1\.4 and
12\.1\.5, and excepting always losses arising out of the independent acts of the party for whom
indemnification is sought, the Owner and the Contractor shall each indemnify and hold
harmless the other from and against all claims, demands, losses, costs, damages, actions,
suits, or proceedings whether in respect to losses suffered by them or in respect to claims by
third parties that arise out of, or are attributable in any respect to their involvement as parties
to this contract, provided such claims are:
.1 caused by:
(1\) the acts or omissions of the party from whom indemnification is sought or anyone for
whose acts or omissions that party is liable, or
(2\) a failure of the party to the Contract from whom indemnification is sought to fulfill its
terms or conditions; and
.2 made by Notice in Writing within such periods as prescribed by the Limitation Act of the
Province of British Columbia.
12\.1\.2 The obligation of either party to indemnify as set forth in paragraph 12\.1\.1 shall be limited as
follows:
.1 In respect to losses suffered by the Owner and the Contractor for which insurance is to
be provided by the owner pursuant to GC 11\.1 – INSURANCE, the limit of the GENERAL
LIABILITY COVERAGE – GC 11\.1\.1(a) or the limit of the PROPERTY COVERAGE – GC
11\.1\.1(b) whichever is pertinent to the loss.
.2 In respect to losses suffered by the Owner and the Contractor for which insurance is not
required to be provided by either party in accordance with GC 11\.1 – INSURANCE, the
greater of the Contract Price as recorded in Article A\-4 – CONTRACT PRICE or Two
Million Dollars ($2,000,000\.00\), but in no event shall the sum be greater than Twenty
Million Dollars ($20,000,000\.00\).
.3 In respect to claims by third parties for direct loss resulting from bodily injury, sickness,
disease or death, or to injury to or destruction of tangible property, the obligation to
indemnify is without limit. In respect to all other claims for indemnity as a result of claims
advanced by third parties, the limits of indemnity set forth in paragraphs 12\.1\.2\.1 and
12\.1\.2\.2 shall apply.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00600
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 1 OF 7
PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS
1\. Clarification
The Scope of Work is provided in Outline Form only. Bidders finding discrepancies,
ambiguities, or omissions in the Outline Scope of Work, or having doubt as to the meaning
or intent shall immediately advise the Owner, who may issue instruction or clarification, in
the form of an Addendum to all Bidders.
2\. BC Hydro Alliance Requirements
The Contractor and any Sub\-contractor performing more than 10% of the work must be
registered and approved with the BC Hydro Power Smart Alliance.
The Contractor and any Sub\-contractor shall meet all BC Hydro Power Smart
requirements. If there is a conflict between the BC Hydro Power Smart requirements and
this document, the BC Hydro Power Smart requirements shall prevail.
3\. Intent of Project
This project is being undertaken as lighting improvement and energy reduction initiative.
The achievement of the planned energy savings is a key element of the project.
This project involves the removal of existing lighting fixtures, the installation of new lighting
fixtures, retrofitting existing light fixtures and the addition or upgrade of lighting controls.
The key items include:
• Lighting Controls: Lighting is generally controlled by line voltage switches, however
common areas have an older Douglas low voltage control system. The intent is to
convert most of the line voltage\-controlled lighting to a combination of wired and
wireless Acuity nLight lighting controls. Classrooms, offices and other T\-bar ceiling
areas will generally have “wired” controls; whereas the drama/stage, selected
atrium lighting and the portable will have “wireless” controls. Corridors,
washrooms, gymnasiums, library, science lab and exterior lighting will remain on
the Douglas control system. Service and storage rooms will generally retain line
voltage switching. Note that plenum rated CAT5e cable (to be green or yellow\- no
boots) is used for nLight wired systems to interconnect fixtures, switches, sensors
etc. In some cases, low voltage 0\-10V wiring will be required for dimming when
using nLight power packs with non\-nLight enabled fixtures.
All areas to be functional following installation by the Contractor. Detailed
programming of nLight wired and wireless devices will be provided by others using
an nLight commissioning tool and Sensorview software.
In some cases. applicable Douglas relays must be by\-passed within the relay
panels and disconnected from the Douglas system when changing over to the
nLight system. Wiring within the relay panels must be labeled indicating circuits
when relays are by\-passed. Applicable circuit schedules to be updated within the
breaker panels.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00600
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 2 OF 7
The existing Douglas Control System must continue to operate for all areas not
included within the controls upgrade scope of this lighting upgrade project.
• Classrooms\- T\-bar Ceiling: Replace existing base building 2x4 recessed fixtures
with new nLight enabled 2x4 LED luminaires generally on a one for one basis.
• Classrooms\- Controls: Existing line voltage switches will be replaced with new data
line on\-off/dimmer switches and generally provide two dimming zones. Ceiling
mount occupancy sensors will be installed. Classroom fixtures, switches and
sensors to be interconnected with CAT5e cable; no re\-circuiting of fixtures is
required. Dimming zones to be programmed using a nLight commissioning tool
and Sensorview software (by others).
• Offices, meeting rooms, etc \- T\-bar Ceiling: Replace existing base building 2x4
recessed fixtures with new nLight enabled 2x4 LED luminaires. Existing low
voltage switches will be replaced with new data line on\-off/dimmer switches and
generally provide one dimming zone. Fixtures and switches to be interconnected
with CAT5e cable; no re\-circuiting of fixtures required.
• Library, science lab, storage, corridors, etc \- T\-bar Ceiling: Replace existing base
building 2x4 recessed fixtures with 2x4 recessed LED luminaires. These areas will
remain on the existing controls.
• Corridors\- High and Low Ceiling: Retrofit existing T8 and T5HO fixtures with LED
lamps and ballasts/drivers.
• Gymnasiums: Retrofit existing T5HO gym fixtures with LED lamps and drivers.
Douglas controls to remain.
• Atrium: Replace existing beam mount fluorescent wrap fixtures with nLight AIR
(wireless) enabled LED wrap luminaires. Fixtures/switches to be programmed
using a nLight mobile App commissioning tool (by others). High bay fixtures to be
replaced with new LED high bays or removed.
• Drama and Stage areas: Retrofit existing fluorescent wrap fixtures with new LED
lamps and dimming drivers. nLight AIR (wireless) enabled power packs to be
installed providing wireless dimming. Fixtures/switches to be programmed using a
nLight mobile App commissioning tool (by others).
• Potlights will generally be replaced one for one with LED potlights. Non\-nLight
enabled luminaires will be used, however limited areas will require 0\-10V low
voltage wiring to facilitate dimming (using nLight power packs).
• Shop areas, change rooms and most service/storage rooms having T8 fixtures will
be retrofitted with T8 LED lamps and new instant start ballasts. These areas will
remain on the existing controls.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00600
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 3 OF 7
• T8 fixtures in washrooms, stairwells and selected areas will be replaced with LED
luminaires having integral occupancy sensors. These areas will remain on the
existing controls.
• Non\-LED and older exterior building fixtures to be replaced with new LED
luminaires. It is expected that the Contractor will allow time to investigate and verify
that the proposed solutions are applicable for each fixture type. Solutions will be
confirmed based on the fixture reviews. These areas will remain on the Douglas
Control System.
• Portable: Replace existing wrap fixtures with a reduced number of nLight Air
(wireless) enabled LED wrap luminaires. Fixtures/switches to be programmed
using a nLight mobile App commissioning tool (by others).
• Contractor is responsible to ensure lighting controls are fully functional prior to a
final inspection by School District No. 38 (Richmond).
4\. Scope of Work Clarification
Since the successful bidder will be registered with the BC Hydro Power Smart Alliance, it
is expected that they will be very familiar with the type of work involved in the project as
noted in the Outline Scope of Work. Bidders finding discrepancies, ambiguities, or
omissions in the Scope of Work, or having doubt as to the meaning or intent shall
immediately advise the Consultant, who may issue instruction or clarification, in the form
of an Addendum to all bidders. All such Addenda shall become a part of the Bid
Documents.
5\. Products to be Installed (Equivalent Products):
Only those lighting and control products specified in Section 00750 – Product
Specifications may be accepted for this project.
Shop drawings for alternate exterior lighting products MUST be submitted at least 5
business days before tender closing and must be approved by the Consultant.
The Contractor shall provide and the Consultant must approve the shop drawings for all
products and fixtures before they are ordered by the Contractor.
6\. Bid Requirements:
Unit pricing for the specified fixtures and controls, which includes both materials and
installation pricing for each fixture/ controls type is required from the Bidders.
7\. Specified Work
The work to be performed is as outlined in the attached Section 00700 Outline Scope of
Work document and shall fully comply with BC Hydro Power Smart requirements. The
contractor shall provide all labour, materials and equipment required to complete the work
and maintain the work site in a clean and tidy manner. All shipping and packing material
shall be removed from each job site at the end of each working day.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00600
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 4 OF 7
8\. Changes to Scope of Work
The Owner reserves the right to amend the Outline Scope of Work prior to the start of the
work by the contractor, and to use the unit costs specified in the bid documents to amend
the contract price at any time. Where unit costs are not available for changes, changes to
the contract price shall be based on the labour rates and material markup specified in the
bid documents.
No additional work shall be undertaken without the written approval of the Owner. The
Owner shall not make payment for any additional work that has not been approved.
9\. Workmanship
All workmanship and materials shall be in accordance with well\-established practice and
standards accepted by the Industry and Trades for this class of facility and shall conform
to all applicable Codes and Regulations.
The Owner shall have the right to reject any work that does not meet this standard.
The contractor must use Red Seal certified electricians who may be assisted by
indentured apprentices to complete the work.
10\. Wiring Methods:
It is intended to re\-use most of the existing conduit and line voltage wiring distribution
system.
Where additional wiring is required, wiring methods and materials shall be consistent and
approved for applicable environments. Suitable quality copper wire of minimum gauge \#12
shall be run in properly rated EMT conduit for all exposed wiring. Armoured cable (AC90\)
may be used for wire drops to fixtures, wire drops inside a wall and for fixture wiring above
a T\-bar ceiling and must be secured high enough to allow the ceiling tiles to be removed.
Where surplus wiring exists, it shall be identified and made safe to the satisfaction of the
Consultant. At lighting panel locations, remove all accessible old existing redundant wiring
from the lighting system. Limited areas require applicable Douglas relays to be by\-passed
within the relay panels and disconnected from the Douglas system when changing over
to the nLight system. Wiring within the relay panels must be labeled indicating circuits
when relays are by\-passed. Applicable circuit schedules to be updated within the breaker
panels.
nLight wired devices to be interconnected using plenum rated CAT5e cable (green or
yellow\- no boots) with RJ45 connectors. Any 0\-10V control wiring shall be \#18 AWG FT6\-
rated with 2\-wires, colored grey and violet with an outer jacket. Control wire shall be run
in conduit when exposed. When hidden in walls or run above T\-bar ceilings, the control
wire may be run without conduit but must be secured high enough to allow the ceiling tiles
to be removed.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00600
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 5 OF 7
Wiring shall be properly labeled at panels, junction boxes and switch locations (conductors
and switch plates).
All new fixtures shall be fitted with a disconnect device as specified in the Canadian
Electrical Code.
11\. Lighting Breaker and Control Panels:
Contractor shall re\-use the existing distribution circuit breaker panels and control panels
and shall complete all wiring changes necessary to meet the circuit and lighting controls
requirements. At lighting panel locations, remove all accessible old existing redundant
wiring from the lighting system.
Contractor may evaluate the location and condition of the existing Distribution circuit
breaker panels and make recommendations to the Consultant.
12\. Labeling and Recertification
The contractor shall be responsible to label all retrofit fixtures to satisfy Province of BC
Electrical Safety Branch requirements. BC Safety Authority Bulletin B\-E3\-100224 1
"Minimum Requirements \- Retrofit of Fluorescent Fixtures" should be referenced.
13\. Ballast Sorting and Inspection Requirements
It is a BC Hydro Power Smart requirement that all old fluorescent ballasts shall be removed
from the fixtures, sorted into the categories of standard and electronic types and retained
on site in a location specified by the Owner for inspection by the consultant.
Although there should be none on this site, wire leads on magnetic ballasts shall be cut
off close to the ballast to prevent re\-use. Any magnetic ballasts found containing PCBs
shall be identified and segregated from non\-PCB ballasts.
Any instant\-start Electronic fluorescent ballasts should be removed with the wire leads
intact and retained on site segregated from the magnetic ballasts. At the discretion of the
Owner, following inspection of the ballasts by the Consultant, the electronic ballasts may
be either delivered to the Owner with the ballast leads intact or recycled.
The balance of the lighting and electrical equipment removed in the course of the work
shall be disposed of or delivered to the Owner, at the Owner’s direction. The owner
anticipates that the quantity of items to be retained will be minimal.
14\. Recycling of Removed Products
Recycling of all products removed shall be the responsibility of the Contractor.
As of October 1st, 2012, all lamps, non\-PCB ballasts and unwanted fixtures shall be
returned to a BC Light Recycle collection site to be recycled. For more information and
depot locations, visit the website below.
http://www.productcare.org/lights

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00600
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 6 OF 7
Metal recycling is encouraged where practical.
15\. Hours of Work
All work shall be performed in a manner that will coordinate with the operation of the
facility.
It should be assumed in general that most work shall be completed during the hours of
3:00 PM to 12:00 midnight on weekdays when school is in session and arranged
times when school is not in session, including weekends and holidays. Exterior
lighting upgrades can be performed when school is in session, providing that all
measures are taken to ensure the health and safety of all students, staff and the
public. Work in all areas shall be scheduled to ensure that lighting in those areas shall be
fully operational for the following weekday when school is in session. At all times, the work
must be completed in a manner that respects all other School District activities taking
place in the school.
The contractor shall submit a work plan and ensure it includes sufficient information on
the phasing of work areas to minimize disruption to facility operations and details relating
to the on\-site safety plan during construction. The work plan must be coordinated with the
School District site liaison.
16\. Workplace Safety Practices
The Contractor shall provide the Owner with written electrical lock\-out procedures to be
followed by all Contractor personnel during the course of the project.
17\. Substantial Completion
The Contractor shall advise the Owner when the work has been substantially complete
and shall review all completed work with the Owner and his Consultant for the purposes
of final inspection and commissioning. Any deficiencies identified shall be promptly
corrected to the satisfaction of the Owner and his Consultant.
The project must achieve substantial completion by February 28, 2023\.
18\. Warranties \& Installation Documentation
The Contractor shall provide, in writing, a 1\-year warranty of all products and
workmanship. Replacement labour and materials shall be the responsibility of the
contractor.
The Contractor shall also provide the Owner with 1 hard copy 3\-ring binder and an
electronic pdf copy Maintenance Manual containing all manufacturer warranties, product
specifications and maintenance documentation for each type of product used in the
project, excluding wire, conduit, and fittings. Manufacturer warranties for LED fixtures shall
be for a minimum of 5 years.

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00600
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 7 OF 7
The Contractor shall keep a set of Scope of Work spreadsheets and one set of white print
drawings on the project and enter all changes.
The Contractor shall provide one set of Scope of Work spreadsheets and one set of white
prints drawings with all marked changes of the "as built" work to the Consultant at the
completion of the project. Marked\-up changes to include but not limited to data line wiring
paths and luminaire labels. Luminaire ID labels (x2\- provided by manufacturer) to be
adhered to luminare (back side) and layout drawing.
19\. Scope of Work
Refer to Section 00700 Outline Scope of Work.
20\. Specifications
Refer to Section 00750 Product Specifications.
21\. Layout Diagrams \& Drawings (PDF Format)
Refer to Section 00800\. Diagrams \& Drawings should be referenced with Outline Scope
of Work and may be made available as separate documents.
Additional layout diagrams will be provided to the successful Contractor.
Description Diagram/ Drawing(s) Ref.
• School Layout\- Key Areas School Floor Plan

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00700
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 1 OF 7
OUTLINE SCOPE OF WORK

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00700
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 2 OF 7

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00700
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 3 OF 7

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00700
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 4 OF 7

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00700
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 5 OF 7

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00700
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 6 OF 7

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00700
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 7 OF 7

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00750
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 1 OF 2
PRODUCT SPECIFICATIONS

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00750
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 2 OF 2
PRODUCT SPECIFICATIONS

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00800
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 1 OF 2
SCHOOL FLOOR PLAN

SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 38 (RICHMOND) SECTION 00800
RE: TENDER NO. 2022\-1604 MCMATH SECONDARY LIGHTING UPGRADE
PAGE 2 OF 2

